      In his work On Rhetoric, a collection of lecture notes later combined into a book by other sources, Aristotle claims the three means of persuasion are through logic, authority, and emotion, and dedicates large chunks of his work to the analysis of these three topics. However, because of a lack of stated connection between public speaking and emotions, some believe Book 2 Chapters 2-11, Aristotle’s work on emotions, “originated in some other context, for they have been only partially adapted to the specific needs of the speaker” (Kennedy 113). However, upon closer analysis of the context which On Rhetoric was written, Aristotle’s definition of rhetoric, and the emotions described, we realize it is quite possible for Aristotle to have written his section on emotions for his study of rhetoric.
      The biggest obstacle to believing Book 2 Chapters 2-11 were not written for On Rhetoric is the fact Aristotle rarely ties his discussions of emotion towards rhetoric. It happens occasionally, but as Kennedy points out, it seems tacked on. Furthermore, only three out of numerous examples relate to public speech, suggesting the work may have had other focuses. Yet, we must remember - these were lecture notes, and thus not everything was laid out. Furthermore, it is very easy to expand on how these emotions could be used in speech. For example, one could stir envy in a crowd by convincing a crowd they are another peoples equals, and deserve what the other people have. Aristotle would have no trouble making the connection in a lecture. 
      It is worth qualifying the argument by pointing out Aristotle’s definition of rhetoric: “[it is] an ability, in each [particular] case, to see the available means of persuasion” (Kennedy 37). Aristotle’s primary goal with his work on rhetoric is not to teach people how to persuade others. He does that somewhat in Book 1 chapters 4 - 15 when discussing how to analyze different types of speech: deliberative, epideictic and judicial. However, when discussing pathos or ethos, he stays away from it completely. Instead, his main goal is to analyze how other people utilize persuasive tactics, which he does. Indeed, there is a consistent effort to show how all emotions displayed are aroused. When studying Aristotle’s efforts in attempting to arouse emotion, however, a peculiar trend appears.
      Aristotle only uses relationship emotions – he only analyzes emotions that can depend on other people. Aristotle holds that all emotions are aroused and created by other people. All his emotions cannot be created with inanimate objects. Rhetoric is also built upon a relationship between people, and thus Aristotle in his work has defined emotions to work for rhetoric for On Rhetoric. He omits any emotions that may not be seen in the view of a relationship, the chief example being guilt. The distinction between shame and guilt is fine, but shame is psychological pain created when others think bad of someone, while guilt is psychological pain created when one think bad of oneself. Thus, rhetoric can in no way cause guilt, it can only cause shame as rhetoric always involved at least one person talking to another person. Of course, it is worth pointing out Ancient Greece was a so-called shame-culture, and Aristotle might not have really been aware of guilt or thought it unimportant. However, Socrates would have placed great emphasis on guilt, as he believed in a soul, and Aristotle would have absolutely been aware of it. If he was attempting to give an overview of emotions, he would have included it (Aristotle is nothing if not systematic). However, as he did not, it must be assumed his work on emotions purposefully omitted shame – its study serves no purpose to the rhetorician. 
      The emotions discussed by Aristotle are all emotions that speeches have tried to, at some point or another, have tried to evoke. Anger, hate, enmity, fear, shamelessness, indignance, and envy are all emotions commonly evoked in all three of Aristotle's types of speeches. Deliberative speeches often try to make people upset at something so they get rid of it or steal from it or kill it or all manner of unpleasant moral behaviors, for emotions are used to justify such beliefs. Judicial and epideictic speeches use such emotions in order to persuade the masses someone is guilty or evil or not fit for office or any other sort of ill manner. On the other hand, orators often try to evoke the good emotions as well - calmness, friendliness, confidence, shame, kindliness, pity, and imitation are all used frequently. Sometimes these emotions are used to combat the above listed example for the "negative" emotions. They also fit into the three categories - deliberative speeches try to convince the public to do good deeds selflessly (and maybe provide free labor) or to elect the orator speaking to office, or someone else to office. Judicial and epideictic speeches may try to free someone of blame or guilt by creating such good emotions.
      While no one can ever truly say what Aristotle’s writings on emotions were intended for, it is probable his work was intended for his lectures and writings on rhetoric. Aristotle may not have written perfectly about the connection of emotion and rhetoric, but it is what he chose to write and what he did not write that tip the balance of probability in favor of the passage being originally written for his rhetorical teachings.


