      Part of the American Dream these days seems to include admission into an institution of higher learning. With an ever-competitive workplace, many seem to gravitate towards institutions which can give hard skills to its students – the ability to code or prescribe medicine. These abilities are considered important, and anything that does not directly lend itself to a job is deemed frivolous. And yet, there are types of institutions, called liberal arts colleges, which strive to do the opposite of giving hard skills, and instead attempt to give other skills instead – the ability to be a leader, or to think critically. Liberal arts colleges strive to give their students a well-rounded education, rather than an occupation.
      In physical structure, liberal arts colleges are distinct from other institutions of learning, like universities and trade schools; distinctions which lend to the focus of cultivating their students. Liberal arts schools tend to have course requirements in place: a student tends to take many classes outside their field of study. This is rare, though not unheard of, in other institutions. The goal of these requirements is to try and expose students to other fields of study, and thus expand their mind. Students are encouraged to be creative, to look for unique ways to solve problems, and some believe this extra knowledge will greatly benefit students in years to come. Steve Jobs famously dropped out of college but continued to take a single class – calligraphy. He claimed this calligraphy class would later help bring Apple success, as he learned about blending technology with humanity and art (Lehrer). Of course, this is a single example, and not everyone who takes calligraphy will become the CEO of a massive technology company. But people knowledgeable in multiple fields develop many soft skills, such as insightfulness, curiosity, and critical thinking – indeed, these are the very values which liberal arts colleges famously focus on. Some people believe they should really focus more on hard skills, such as computer coding or plumbing or engineering, as they believe it to be more practical. This thought process, however, is not as true as many think. In 2013, Google analyzed all of their employees, and analyzed what made their top workers as efficient and productive as they were. People assumed the common factor would be a high proficiency in STEM skills. This simply was not true, however: 
[The survey] shocked everyone by concluding that, among the eight most important qualities of Google’s top employees, STEM expertise comes in dead last. The seven top characteristics of success at Google are all soft skills: being a good coach; communicating and listening well; possessing insights into others (including others different values and points of view); having empathy toward and being supportive of one’s colleagues; being a good critical thinker and problem solver; and being able to make connections across complex ideas. (Davidson) 
All institutions of higher learning teach their students how to think. But it is at liberal arts colleges where learning how to think critically, making connections, and having a deeper understanding of the world is championed and, indeed, sought after.
      Liberal arts colleges tend to be small - according to an article from USA News, “the average undergraduate enrollment for fall 2016 was 6,265” (Powell), but liberal arts schools have much less than the average amount. I attend such a school, Carleton College, and it has around 2,000 undergraduate students, which is typical for liberal arts schools. Very often, the focus of the professors is on the undergraduate students, whereas with other schools the focus is often placed upon the graduate students and the research of the professors. In an article from The Atlantic, titled “Have Public Universities Lost Their Focus? The problem with higher education is that colleges are operating more like businesses and less like a social good”, universities focus more on producing research and students that can make them money, rather than actually educate them (Zinshteyn). The reason is simple – a large part of the focus of universities is creating people with jobs. By being small, and sometimes not even having a graduate school, liberal arts colleges are able to focus in on their undergraduate students, and building character within them.
      Liberal arts colleges can be defined by many technical and practical qualities, but are ultimately institutions of higher learning which place a great emphasis on educating their students, rather than teaching them how to obtain a job. They believe that these soft skills will make their students more able in the workplace. Quite frankly, they believe these skills make their students better than those who do not have them. Perhaps there is some arrogance to this thought, but there is enough evidence to suggest that a part of the American Dream should include a liberal arts education.
      
      
      
      
