      When considering both parts of Emily Bronte’s novel Wuthering Heights, a reader may experience a strange sense of déjà vu because of the striking similarities of some characters. Clearly, Bronte’s naming of mother and daughter (Catherine and Cathy) indicates a relationship beyond blood ties, but Bronte includes more subtle and profound parallelisms between the old and new generations of Wuthering Heights and Thrushcross Grange. The old generation consists of Heathcliff, Catherine Linton, and Hindley Earnshaw while the new generation consists of Linton Heathcliff, Cathy Linton, and Hareton Earnshaw. In both generations, characters are romantically separated due to social class divisions and mistreated characters turn vengeful, but the second generation’s disregard for class leads to resolution and points to the author’s view that education mends disparities in class.  
      In both generations, characters favor wealth and status over genuine love and happiness. When Mr. Earnshaw first brings Heathcliff to Wuthering Heights, Mrs. Earnshaw calls him a “gipsy brat,” the children “refused to have it [Heathcliff] in bed with them,” and Joseph calls him “as dark almost as if it came from the devil” (Bronte 36 – 37). Clearly, Heathcliff’s welcome could have been warmer, and his condition worsens when Hindley inherits Wuthering Heights and makes him work in the fields. As a foreigner and a laborer, Heathcliff resides on the lower end of the social spectrum, but Catherine “was much too fond of Heathcliff” (Bronte 42) and romantically runs about the moors with him. After accepting Edgar Linton’s proposal, Catherine explains to Nelly that her love and happiness belong to Heathcliff but class stands in the way when she says, “If the wicked man in there [Hindley] had not brought Heathcliff so low, I shouldn’t have thought of it [marrying Edgar Linton] …Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same, and Linton’s is as different as a moonbeam from lightning, or frost from fire” (Bronte 81). Unfortunately for Heathcliff, Catherine marries a man whom she calls her opposite because of status and wealth. Catherine says, “he will be rich, and I shall be the greatest woman of the neighbourhood” (Bronte 78), which shows that she decides to marry Edgar for the status and wealth that he will bring her and not because of the love that he would offer her. 
      Likewise, Cathy’s marriage to Linton Heathcliff is not a result of love but a result of a focus on status and wealth. When Cathy runs away from the Grange and meets Hareton, the two get along nicely with Cathy “laughing and chattering, in the best spirits imaginable” (Bronte 193), but Cathy’s focus on class and wealth manifests itself when Nelly reveals that Hareton is not the son of the master of the household. Cathy immediately orders Hareton to go fetch her horse and gawks at the idea of Hareton being her cousin, which shows how Cathy does not want to associate with those of the lower class. Instead, Cathy marries educated Linton Heathcliff, even though he repeatedly annoys her. The marriage is void of true love on either side; Linton Heathcliff says, “Uncle [Edgar] is dying, truly, at last – I’m glad, for I shall be master of the Grange after him – and Catherine always spoke of it as her house. It isn’t hers! It’s mine.” (Bronte 280). In both generations, social divisions restrict people from marrying for love, and the blame lies in recurring abuse.  
      The main antagonist of both parts of Wuthering Heights is the abused Heathcliff, but in the second generation exists another character who is equally abused. When Heathcliff takes responsibility over young Hareton, he says, “Now, my bonny lad, you are mine! And we’ll see if one tree won’t grow as crooked as another, with the same wind to twist it!” (Bronte187). Heathcliff is intentionally inflicting the same damage that twisted him into a vengeful character upon Hareton because, as Catherine said, the cruel treatment and forced servitude lowers one’s social status, which keeps Heathcliff and Hareton from marrying Catherine and Cathy (at least initially in Hareton’s and Cathy’s case). Seeing as how Hindley had died and Heathcliff’s vengeance against him had thus been fulfilled, Bronte may have made Heathcliff treat Hareton in this manner to communicate to her readers that cruelty and abuse consume her characters until it turns them cruel and abusive themselves. The recurring abuse is significant because it creates the major conflict of Heathcliff not being able to marry Catherine in the first part of the book, and it could have created an equally vengeful Hareton in the second part of the book. For example, Lockwood describes Hareton as an ill-tempered brute who mistreats Cathy when he first meets him. However, Hareton did not become cruel and abusive himself in the end. 
	Wuthering Heights ends happily because Cathy and Hareton love each other while disregarding social class. When Catherine makes a peace offering in the form of a book, Hareton initially refuses, saying, “‘Nay! You’ll be ashamed of me every day of your life. And the more, the more you know me, and I cannot bide it’” (Bronte 314-315). Hareton’s response reveals his perception and even fear of the social divide between him and Catherine, but the two of them disregard the divide, read the book together, and ultimately fall in love. Bronte’s resolution to a problem that plagued both generations is the book that Catherine offers Hareton, which suggests that Bronte sees education as an institution that mends social class division. Whereas characters had traditionally found happiness through wealth and power, Catherine and Hareton are able to unlock happiness with the help of books. As Nelly says, “His honest, warm, and intelligent nature shook off rapidly the clouds of ignorance and degradation in which it had been bred” (Bronte 322). Thus, Hareton is able to overcome the social gap separating him from a higher-class woman through education, which is the author’s remedy for social disparity. 
	The two generations of characters at Wuthering Heights and Thrushcross Grange struggle with similar problems like class and abuse, but the second generation manages to resolve these issues by setting aside the emphasis on wealth and status. Bronte believes that education destroys social class divides.
