
      "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed."-Second Amendment, 1791. Ever since it was created, the Second Amendment has had a huge impact on our country. The United States as a whole has, by far, the largest number of legal guns of other country in the world, topping out at around 270 million. And there has always been a presence trying to get rid of them, to take guns out of the hands of the law abiding citizens, who never did anything wrong. But there is evidence that says guns and less-strict gun laws make America safer. Although this can be very controversial among the different political parties, the statistics don’t lie.
	Approximately one third of Americans say they or someone in their house owns a gun, with the total number of guns in our country estimated between 270 and 310 million, or about one for every man woman and child, which shows that many households own more than one gun. A study by the Pew Research Center reported that 52% of Americans say that protecting gun rights is more important than controlling gun ownership, while 46% say the opposite. Another survey by Gallup said that in 2014, 63% of citizens feel a gun in the house makes it safer, with only 30 % saying they make houses more dangerous. In the wake of the Sandy Hook shooting, there was a strong push by President Obama to reduce gun violence and create stricter laws. However this was met by extremely unintended consequences. With all of the talk of gun control on the news after a mass shooting, the NRA gained 100,000 new paying members in less than a year, after Sandy Hook, with Fox News reporting an additional 8,000 new NRA members a day. All of this shows that while not everyone in America owns a gun, there is a strong support system behind them that should be protected by our laws.
      However, even though there is lots of evidence that shows more guns make our country safer overall, there’s also the idea that guns make more crime. And to a somewhat sensible, liberally minded person, the latter makes more sense, because how could people walking around town with guns in their pockets possibly make anything safer? After all, many countries in Europe have banned guns, and reportedly they have much less crime than the United States. Also, in the United States, there are many firearm related homicides every year, hitting 11,101 in 2011. In addition to the increased crime rates supposedly due to guns, people say if all guns are illegal, it will make them harder for criminals to get, which would be a reason to outlaw guns in America. They would be harder to get because there would be a bigger demand on the black market, so they would be too expensive for the average criminal to get their hands on. Finally, one of the last arguments opponents have for stricter laws on gun sales is the so called “Gun show loophole”. This is the fact that buyers at private gun shows don’t have to go through the background checks you would normally have at a store. They say that because of this, guns can fall into the hands of criminals who will use them for bad purposes. However, this is not the case according to a survey by the U.S. Department of Justice, which showed that only 2% of criminals who had a gun at the time of their offense bought it through a gun show, while 40% obtained it from an illegal source (Bell, Larry).  
      In 1837, Georgia passed a law banning handguns. This was then ruled unconstitutional and removed from the books, but ever since then, there have been sensible and some very un-sensible laws passed in regards to guns and gun ownership. However there was never a straight out ban on any guns until 1976 when Washington D.C. enacted an anti-handgun law. It makes you wonder why nothing went wrong for 140 years, but suddenly there was some reason to ban handguns. However, following this ban, crime rates didn’t go down as they supposedly should have. They actually increased. To quote the Wall Street Journal, “The gun ban had an unintended effect: It emboldened criminals because they knew that law-abiding District residents were unarmed and powerless to defend themselves. Violent crime increased after the law was enacted, with homicides rising to 369 in 1988, from 188 in 1976 when the ban started.” Now D.C. has the highest death by firearm rate in the country, with 24.5 deaths per 100,000 people. But even with all this violent crime, people still buy guns.
      There are many reasons why people buy guns, and they’ve pretty much always stayed the same. People use guns for sport, to hunt, and to protect themselves. Gun sales rise especially after a mass shooting, in the area where it happened and throughout the country. People have the tendency to want to protect themselves after they realize what can really happen in the world, which sometimes requires, sadly, many people to die. The Sandy Hook tragedy happened right here in Connecticut, which happens to have relatively strict gun laws, compared to other states. And after it happened, gun sales surged, from about 12.7 million background checks being performed in 2008, to 19 million in 2013, after the shooting took place. (More background checks=more guns being sold) And this is all despite the fact that lots of parents from the Newtown community pushed for stricter gun laws and more regulations. But as has happened before, the opposite happened of what they intended, and gun sales soared. 
      Similar to that, after right-to-carry laws are put in place, firearm related crime goes way down. Based on data from the Supplemental Homicide Report, after right-to-carry laws were enacted, firearm homicides dropped by 21%. Statistically, that’s very significant. Overall homicides also dropped by 6.5%. But it’s not just murders that drop after after laws like this are passed. States with the highest gun ownership have seen the biggest drop in burglaries. This is mostly due to the fact that an armed household is much more risky for a robber to break into, for obvious reasons. If anything, this proves my point the best, because it shows how areas with looser gun laws have less crime, like I said in the beginning. 
      Overall, more guns have been proven to make America safer, or at least the areas in the U.S. with more guns. But less guns or more strict laws result in more crime. With the current issues in our government, and the push for stricter gun laws, our politicians should look more at the statistics. If more right-to-carry laws were put in place, or just overall looser restrictions were made, statistically, there should be a considerable drop in crime. Even though it’s not just the issue of guns, crime is due to demographics and the cultural differences in our country, more guns would only hurt the criminals. 

