        	Everyone has that one place where they can call home, even if it's just for a few summers. It's a place where you hang out with friends, play pickle in the bullpen or run around the fence collecting home run balls from years past. You can run along the old sidewalks, or climb on the bleachers while you're waiting for the next inning to start. Watching all of the college players out there on the field, you get a feeling like that's where you want to be ten years from now, and you'll do anything to get there. It gives you a certain inspiration to want to be that guy diving for balls at third base, or the one at bat, waiting for the ball to be pitched so you can drive it right back at the pitcher. The best part is making memories that will stay with you your whole life, like living in a mini Sandlot movie. For everyone it's different, but for me that place was Muzzy Field when I was nine or ten, going there almost every day there was a game, watching and fooling around until I had to go home.
        	It all started the first time I went to a game. At first it seemed kind of stupid; I would just sit around with my mom watching people I didn't even know play baseball until she wanted to leave. And at first it was like that, until other people started going. Over a few days, more of my friends started to go to the games, and that's when it started getting more fun. After a while, we would barely even watch the games, we would just run around outside the field playing pickle or having a catch. It got to a point where I would rather be at Muzzy than at home or even somewhere like Lake Compounce.
        	 Plus, when I was actually watching a game, I wasn't just having fun, I was learning more about baseball. You can learn a lot about anything by just seeing it be done by more experienced people. Watching how older players handle the same situations as you can give you ideas about how to make plays better and be the best that you can be.
        	Getting to watch the college players probably taught me more than any coach I had had up to that point in my life. All of my other Little League coaches yelled and swore more than they taught us about why we were even there; to play the the greatest sport in America. It almost wasn’t even fun to go to practice or a game and hear our coach argue with the other team's coach more than they were encouraging us to play. But over time that just made me want to get better. That year was probably the first time I really played baseball nonstop throughout the year. When I wasn't actually on a team, I was practicing fielding ground balls in my yard or going to the cages in the winter. I knew I wasn't as good as some of the guys on my team, but that didn't stop me from trying to work harder than them.
        	It wasn't until last year that I had a coach that really took the time to help me improve. Granted, all my coaches did to some extent, but not like Coach Marquis. My first year playing on the "big diamond", I was worse than when I played at McCabe. But I think I learned more in that one spring season than I have my whole life. I dreaded the first practice; everyone was bigger and more experienced than me, and I was really intimidated. But he pulled me aside throughout the season and really helped me become the player I am now. Without having him as a coach, I probably wouldn't have kept playing baseball.
        	And even now, going to Muzzy to watch my friends play in the summer, or playing there myself in front of my friends and family, I continue to learn from my teammates and coaches, but also from myself as well. One of the biggest lessons any athlete or any person has to learn sometime is that you, yourself are not perfect. There is always something you can improve on in any aspect of your life, whether it be a sport, your work or even just the way you live your life in general. No matter what you do, there will always be someone who’s better than you, but that doesn’t give you an excuse not to work harder than them. 
      One of my coaches said that even though we may all be on the same team, we should constantly be fighting for the position we want. You have to want it enough and show people that you do to earn the right to play. At first I thought he was crazy; why should teammates be fighting for positions if we’re all on the same team? But as we started to win more and more games, I realized we were actually working as a team, not fighting. In a way, we were almost encouraging each other to do better by outdoing each other. 
      In anything in life, if you’re lazy and you never push yourself, you won’t be that guy to make the winning play, get the best job or go the extra mile. You’ll just be sitting on the sidelines, watching everyone else do what you wanted to do. For every team I’ve been on, there were those two or three kids who walked when we ran, stood around while we stretched or showed up late when we were there early and then wondered why all they did was sit while we got to play. In anything you do, you should always be pushing yourself to the best of your abilities and you should never settle for anything short of what you’re capable of. And even if something doesn’t work the first time, you should never be the person to give up before you give it a second chance. 



