	“Think of it: a disability is usually defined in terms of what is missing. But autism is as much about what is abundant as what is missing, an over-expression of the very traits that make our species unique.”(Paul Collins) Collins is saying that even though autism is considered a disability, it necessarily isn’t one; it’s just over-exaggeration of people and their qualities. He is also explaining how autism is really about what the individual does have, rather than what they’re missing. In the book The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time by Mark Haddon, the main character Christopher struggles with autism but is also brilliant in math and has an amazing memory. Haddon shows that even though sometimes autism severely challenges people who have it, it’s still an advantage for others because those individuals provide the world different ways to view and solve problems.
	In the story, you see how Christopher solves problems differently than most people. He organizes everything in his head and goes over all possible scenarios so he knows what to do. When Christopher goes on a hunt to find the person who killed Wellington, his neighbor’s dog, he writes his book like a mystery novel and finds clues to solve the murder. In a way, the book is a metaphor for how Christopher’s mind works. He is organized, and goes over the possible clues to get an answer, like a detective would in a mystery novel. Christopher is also very logical and rules out the answers that wouldn’t make sense or be illogical.
	Similar to Christopher, other autistic people have different ways of solving problems than “normal” people. Temple Grandin sees things and thinks with a different point of view. She thinks in pictures and uses her senses to remember things: how something smells, how something sounds, how something looks, etc. Because she thinks differently and sees things differently, she can form solutions to problems most people wouldn’t think of. She likes animals, and in multiple cases she was able to help them. For example, she helped horses from becoming scared or distressed by getting on the ground and seeing from their point of view and fixing things she saw that would cause problems, i.e. chains dangling near the ground or a flag waving too close to the building. This provides an advantage for people with autism because they possess certain qualities that most people don’t, like advanced problem solving skills and even in cases like Christopher’s, very advanced math skills.
      Even though these good traits are shown in people who have autism, there are negative drawbacks as well. A lot of the time people with autism think too logically, and as a result don’t tend to fit in well with society. Christopher, when faced with a social problem, will take too long to analyze all possible answers and choose the right one, and by the time he does, the other person would have probably moved on. In that situation, a person without autism would think as they speak and basically wing it, but it’s what they’re used to, so they don’t think much of it. Also, in more severe cases of autism, the person will be unable to speak, or do anything for themselves, which is a definite negative side. 
      Even though autism has its downsides, we should be more focused on the benefits, because they are what will greatly influence our world. Famous mathematicians and scientists such as Sir Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein most likely fell on the autistic spectrum, yet despite having social problems, still provided our world with so much knowledge it would be hard to think of what our lives would be like without them. We wouldn’t know nearly as much about math and science without their contributions. Although it can be hard for some, our whole world would be a very different place without the influence of autistic individuals. It may sound strange, but we should thank autism for what it’s given to our modern world through all the people who have it.
