	“An honest enemy is always better than a friend who lies. Pay less attention to what people say and more attention to what they do. Their actions will show you the truth.”-Unknown. This quote is saying how it’s better to have enemies that don’t lie to you, than to have friends that do. It’s saying that to find the truth about people, you have to look at what they do and less at what they say because their actions will show you who they really are. In the play Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare, one character, Friar Lawrence, is the kind of guy who you have to pay attention to. It looks like he’s trying to help Romeo and Juliet, but he never actually was; he has really wanted them dead from the beginning.
	Now, to the average reader, Friar Lawrence seems like the kind of old monk or priest who wants peace between everyone. Of course, this is all open to interpretation, but most people would view him as that kind of person. And there is evidence to back that claim up, such as when in Act II, Scene VI, he marries Romeo and Juliet to “help” them when their families won’t. Or in Act V, Scene III when the Prince says “We still have known thee for a holy man./Where’s Romeo’s man? What can he say in this?” you know Friar Lawrence hasn’t been in trouble with the law because he’s a priest and people don’t suspect he would do anything bad. He was also going to help Juliet run away with Romeo after she woke up from the sleeping potion he gave her, but then she went and killed herself, which completely ruined his plan… or did it? There is reason to believe Friar Lawrence wanted Romeo and Juliet dead all along.
	The Friar does seem like the kind of guy who would help people out, but was he really helping Romeo and Juliet in this case? If you look at it, it wouldn’t make sense for him to help the two children of the families with the biggest feud in Italy. Marrying them should just create bigger problems. But what if Friar Lawrence had other intentions in mind? What if he really wanted Romeo and Juliet dead? It sounds crazy, but it makes sense. The Prince couldn’t keep the Montagues and Capulets in line, so he hired Friar Lawrence to cause them so much grief they would stop fighting. The Prince had also said there would be a penalty of death if any of  them were caught fighting in public, which they were, but no one was killed; Romeo was just exiled and the others were dead anyway. But then, due to Friar’s plans never really working the way they were supposed to, Romeo ended up dead anyway, a benefit for the Prince. This could have been due to the Friar’s plans having holes in them, or them actually working the way he meant them to. For example, when he sent Friar John to deliver the letter to Romeo, it never got there, which ultimately resulted in Romeo killing himself.  “The letter was not nice but full of charge/ Of dear import, and the neglecting it/ May do much danger.”(Act V, Scene II, Friar Lawrence) Friar Lawrence knew Romeo not getting his letter would result in danger because he never meant for Romeo to receive it, and he wanted Romeo dead.
	Earlier in the play, Friar Lawrence also complemented the Prince, which suggests he’s on his side, or he likes him, which would also be odd because it doesn’t seem like anyone really respects the Prince’s rule. He says to Romeo to comfort him, “Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,/ Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law.” The Prince also lets Friar Lawrence go free at the end of the play when he’s found at the scene of a crime. The Friar should have been arrested because of the circumstances, but the Prince said, “We still have known thee for a holy man,” and then he just let him go, showing they were either friends, or they were working together. Just because he was a priest doesn’t mean he couldn’t commit a crime. The Prince gave Friar Lawrence way too much leeway when any reasonable leader would have at least suspected him. Again, this could have been a result of the Prince being a bad leader, or he wanted to reward the Friar for finally putting an end to the feud. The two families that had caused him so much grief were finally getting along, and it doesn’t look like he cared how it happened as long as it did.
	Long story short, Romeo and Juliet died because of Friar Lawrence. He never really tried to help them, because his “help” just created more problems for them. Nothing he did for them worked in the long run, because it all ended up with them dead. This is more beside the point, but still something you should consider: In lots of stories and movies, it’s the seemingly good person with good intentions that ends up being the bad guy. They gain the trust of the main character and then turn on them, like Friar Lawrence did to Romeo and Juliet. The Friar didn’t necessarily lie to them, but he sure didn’t do anything good for them.  
	
	



	
