	The airplane has only been around for about one hundred years, but in that short time it's had a profound impact on our way of life. The Wright brothers had the first successful powered flight in 1903, and many more in the years to come. The invention of the airplane was a major turning point in the history of the world because it changed the way people thought and interacted. The world was forever changed in the means of transportation, competition and the way we fight wars, as well as many other area that were impacted by the invention of the airplane. 
	The aspiration of human flight has been around for thousands of years, all the way back to the ancient Greeks, but it was never accomplished until the eighteenth century in the form of hot air balloons and gliders. But we had never had powered, heavier-than-air flight, i.e. airplanes. This was not done until the early twentieth century, with Orville and Wilbur Wright, in a bicycle shop and on the shores of Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. Their first flight only lasted twelve seconds, but improved to a time of fifty-nine seconds that took three years to break. The two brothers owned a bicycle shop where they built and repaired bikes, which helped them build an airplane  because they understood the mechanics. They knew how to make it light, and they knew it had to be balanced in order to fly right, like a bike has to be to ride. Over the years, the airplane has evolved to become a staple of our transportation and the way we fight wars. They’ve gone from wood and metal, one man, one motor planes to sleek flying machines that look like they should be too heavy to fly.
      As people around the world started to hear about the Wright brothers' achievement, it inspired them to make improvements on the design. Eventually the age of airplanes was born, and people kept coming up with new ideas and uses for the technology. However none of this happened until a few years later. The Wright brothers didn’t want anyone to know about their accomplishment, because they thought people would steal their ideas. They wanted to make sure it was patented before they told anyone about it, which definitely impacted the public’s reaction when they found out. People everywhere started making new improvements, changing the design and making it better. The brothers also became role models for people; they showed the world that anything can be done with hard work and determination. 
      Airplanes have had a huge impact on the average person's ability to travel long distances. Just one hundred years ago, it would take weeks of long, dangerous travel just to cross the country. Now, an airplane ticket is cheap enough for the average American to go just about anywhere they want, a luxury that wasn’t possible in the early 1900’s. Even after the Wright’s initial flight at Kitty Hawk, passenger planes able to carry lots of people and luggage weren’t around for another few years. However the first two man passenger flight, from St. Petersburg to Tampa in 1914, could count. It lasted for 23 minutes, flying just 15 feet above the water, and the one ticket sold at auction for $400, or more than $5000 in today’s currency. Passenger flights now are much more affordable, with the average price of a ticket being about $303 for a 1,770 mile round trip, much farther and cheaper than the first passenger flight.   
      The airplane also had a profound impact politically, giving governments new ways to fight as well as ways to profit from the technology. Not even ten years after they made the first successful flight, the two brothers were putting their machine to good uses after they signed a contract with the U.S. Army Signal Corps to train military pilots. This put the United States at an advantage because they had technology that the rest of the world didn’t, even though the first airplanes weren’t exactly high-tech. However it wasn’t long until airplanes started to be used by our enemies, and now they’re just part of the way we fight wars. Airplanes also had an impact on our economy. Because of all the new industries, new companies were created, which needed employees and all of this strengthened, and put money into, the economy. It didn’t help that right after it was invented, we got into World War I, and after that, the depression, but over time, it helped by creating jobs and even employing people during and after the war.
      Obviously we still use airplanes today as a means of war transport, bombing, reconnaissance, etc., and this all became common practice during World War I and World War II. In Centennial of Aviation, Michael Clark said “By World War I, aviation enthusiasts here and abroad had become convinced that the refinement of airplanes would lead to greatly advanced military capabilities.” Airplanes had now replaced the balloons used for decades, and they were quickly being used for things other than surveying the enemy. Once someone strapped a machine gun to a plane, air battles ensued and we now had to develop dogfight tactics, shaping the way we still sometimes fight today. However, we weren’t the ones that really started developing the technology. The Nazis and Japanese had superior planes, so we improved ours not to have the advantage, but to just level the playing field. But by the end of the war, we had significantly better aircraft, which ultimately helped us win. However the Allies and mainly the United States used their less improved airplanes to their advantage. At the Battle of Midway, Japan’s naval offensive was destroyed by American dive bombers that were all technically inferior to the Japanese craft, showing that we could still work with what we had. Overall, the outcome of World War II would have been different if it weren’t for the airplane and the improvements we made to it. We would be living different lives today if planes and the Air Forces weren’t around to help. 
      The social impacts of the airplane are even still felt and being taught today. Almost everyone has heard of Amelia Earhart and her accomplishments, both in flight and for the advancement of women and commercial aviation. Earhart was the first woman to fly across the Atlantic and also the first woman to circumnavigate the globe, until her disappearance in 1937. Her amazing story inspired women from all over the world to follow their dreams and showed them that they can do whatever they set their mind to. The Wright brothers’ impact can also still be felt today. On December 17th, whether most people know it or not, we celebrate Wright Brothers Day, in memory of their success and the work ethic and determination they instilled in so many people. President Obama issued a proclamation in 2012, and in it he said “On Wright Brothers Day, we reflect on their astonishing feat and celebrate the ambition it still inspires more than a century later,” which shows how much they’ve impacted the lives of an entire country, more than one hundred years after their accomplishments.  
      These new rises in jobs and the business created by airplanes helped lead to America’s rise as an economic superpower. In the same proclamation, Obama also wrote “With their game-changing feat, the Wright brothers earned their place in history as innovators who helped trigger America's rise as an economic superpower, and whose example inspired the kind of businesses and industries that built and grew our middle class.” Without the Wright brothers’ achievement, America might not be as strong as it is today, because of all the jobs they created and the money they brought in. We would be living in a completely different world if it weren’t for the airplane. 
      Airplanes have also influenced lawmakers to make laws regarding aircraft, their emissions and flyers’ responsibility of them. In her article Your Biggest Carbon Sin May Be Air Travel, Elisabeth Rosenthal said, “the European Union decided to bring aviation into its emissions control plan: “We believe that those of us who can afford to pay for an air ticket can also afford to pay for the pollution from their travel.” This demonstrates how airplanes not only affect our country but others as well.(Obviously...) However it’s a relatively new concept for people to be worried about carbon emissions. Fifty years ago global warming wasn’t a big, controversial topic like it is today, and people weren’t as concerned about the carbon we give off from everyday things like flying or driving a car. Rosenthal also mentioned the “European scheme was ‘extremely burdensome’ and would cost United States airlines $3.1 billion between 2012 and 2020.” This shows how much of a big deal this is for countries to be spending over three billion dollars just because of airplanes. Without their invention, this would 
never have even been an issue. 
      On the topic of the negative aspects and impacts airplanes have had, there’s a pretty long list. But none have been so prominent as the bombings of September 11th. On the morning of September 11, 2001, a total of 2,996 people died though a total of four planes hijacked by terrorists. Two flew into the World Trade Centers, one into the Pentagon and one into a field after the passengers fought off the attackers. Along with the dead from these events, countless others were impacted by the loss of family members, friends and neighbors. This event led to the war on terrorism, impacting more and more people through the actions of groups like Al Qaeda, ISIS and the militaries fighting against them. There have also been other events like 9/11, for example the plane that was crashed into the Alps on March 27, 2015, killing 150 people, and none would have even been possible if it weren’t for the airplane. However, these mass killings, which don’t seem to have any good repercussions, actually have. They’ve all led to advanced security at airports, in an attempt to make these occurrences not happen again.
      It can’t be said the invention of the airplane was all good or all bad, because it wasn’t. It had both good and bad effects, just like every new invention does and will do throughout history. But overall, aircraft have impacted our lives in more good ways than we think. They’ve made traveling the world infinitely better, because you no longer have to sail across thousands of miles of ocean for months on end; you can just fly and be there in a few hours. They’ve made military fighting and reconnaissance easier, though for both sides of the battle field. And they’ve strengthened or economies by creating jobs and companies to make money. Based on our lives now, a life without airplanes would definitely not be an easy one, and there would be common things we do now without thinking about them that wouldn’t even be possible.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      



