        In theory, expressing opinions via social media could make the democratic process run more effectively. The whole idea of fostering democratic values in our nation is letting everyone participate and stand up for their beliefs. Being able to conduct this ideology is what makes our country able to uphold the strong democracy within it. However, the recent association between public opinion and social media have put our nation’s interests at risk. Instead of bringing our country together in unity, based on our first amendment rights, it is only making us more divided. It is shown through the current division in our nation that the use of social media is putting our democratic values and opinions in jeopardy.
        For starters, a prime example of our nations division was displayed through the 2016 campaign and election. The gruesome battle between Trump and Clinton was brought upon the media for everyone to witness and comment upon. It was almost impossible to browse on social media and not view anything campaign related. As predicted, with the chaos of the campaign came the stampede of diverse notions. Many began to post their personal judgements about the candidates and who was the best fit for the future undertaking of our country. Blogging personal inputs about current politics became popular among celebrities. Knowing how the public operates, society tends to follow the star’s lives and their personal thoughts. Reading about how a celeb thinks on a politically related issue may cause you to think differently about that said issue. Many feel obliged to share the same mindset as their idolized star; as if they could get a glimpse into their reality and take a walk in their shoes. This exact reality of human nature, that we tend to conform to idolized ideas, is what’s putting the democratic values of our nation at risk. 
        To add on, throughout his campaign process and later won election (*sigh*), Trump was a vivid user of the social media app known as Twitter. Trump constantly tweeted about his process and all of his “so-called promises” that he intended on carrying out in his presidency. Trump never held back from posting anything that was too controversial or risky. With Trump's twitter spontaneity came the attack of many supporting or opposing opinions from the public. The overload of political content on social media was starting to cause frustration among many. Many didn’t know what or who to believe in at this point, and society was losing its own personal beliefs in spite of it. An example of one of Trump’s recent vulgar tweets stated “Fake News CNN and NBC are going out of their way to disparage our great First Responders as a way to ‘get Trump’. Not fair to FR or effort!” This is a prime example of how Trump speaks his mind to the public and will rarely ever hold back. This shows how Trump is more determined to protect his ego than the safety of our country. 
It can be said that the value of opinion remained existent due to people being generally involved and caring about what was happening politically in their nation. On the other hand, the democratic value started to take a dip due to people doubting their own beliefs and in turn following the judgment of others with higher authority and power.
        However, the use of social media doesn’t always put our democratic values and opinions at risk. In 2014, the world was taken over by the social media phenomenon known as the ALS ice bucket challenge. Three young men had decided to come up with a challenge that involved dumping a bucket of ice water on their heads to fight the disease. This soonly influenced the lives of neighboring communities, and even reached to celebrities to raise over $200 million to ALS charities worldwide. This simple social media act allowed society to reach out and participate in fighting this disease in their own ways. It gave people a platform to use so that they could freely contribute to this cause however they chose to. To see how a country can unite with one another to support and participate for such a heartbreaking disease such as ALS reinsured that we still hold and foster strong democratic values.
        In today’s world, we are all bombarded by the strong opinions of others. These temporary divisions in society are what test the strength of our country. Our only response back is to show the rest of the world that we can recuperate from any setback. It is important for the citizens of America to acknowledge and to be proud that we have the right to voice our own opinion. No one should conform to society in fear of not fitting in or standing alone from the crowd due to their differing beliefs. In order to rekindle our society to once again foster our strong democratic values, we all need to remain confident enough in expressing and persisting our own opinions and beliefs.