Beauty is a very subjective and prevalent matter that holds rein over how our current society functions. Beauty can be defined as something tangible that can be met; such as seeing a perfectly symmetrical face that you find innately appealing, and can also be something that can’t be physically attainable; such as the heartwarming feeling brought upon by an innocent child’s play of laughter. As stated in Sophia Loren’s book Women and Beauty, she believes that beauty is something that is viewed as valuable and fair in human culture - which is something that I personally disagree with. As beauty is a very valuable trait to possess in society, it is nonetheless unfair to those who genetically lack this attribute. The value and fairness of beauty is something that is perceived by the eyes of the beholder and is found in things that are done well, and can’t always be determined by specific societal standards that deem things as “beautiful”.
        The business world - a prime example for where beauty standards are held at an unfair advantage. When selling a product, you want a team equipped with attractive individuals so that the buyers will be more intrigued in the item; hence more willing to invest in it. A study conducted by economist Daniel Hamermesh unleashes the unfair economic advantages that a “more attractive” individual receives in the work field: over the entirety of a male’s career, the better-looking man will make a rough estimate of $250,000 more than his less-appealing counterpart. This directly warrants the conclusion that it pays to be attractive. Take into account this hypothetical scenario: two young men are interviewing for the same job; both bearing the exact same qualifications. However, the first young man is more attractive than the other. Based on how our society functions, the young man possessing greater physical features will most likely get the job. Many may not like to admit it, but beauty plays a big role in the decisions we make.
        A person’s first impression of you can mean everything. What if the way you look pre-determines how someone will feel towards you? Whether you realize it or not, your physical features correlate to how people view and perceive you as, even before you may encounter them. This particular prejudice introduces a harsh reality that some will have to face - the way you look may dictate how the outside world sees and treats you as. Say someone has a soft complexion with bright eyes and an inviting smile; this person will more likely be labeled as one who is trustworthy and competent. These individuals will receive more attention from people among society, tend to make friends easier, and will be treated at an unfair advantage. Studies have shown that people who possess qualities that are deemed as competent are more likely to influence economic exchanges, legal judgements, and even win over elections. We also characterize someone who holds a pure and easeful essence as a mother figure; someone we look for when we need nurturing and guidance as a mother would grant us. However, when coming across a person who endows a more introverted appearance, some may label them as shy, incompetent, and unreliable; rash judgements that are formed before getting to know them. Placing judgements on an individual solely based on their facial structure alone is a dangerous habit that society seems to carry, and will be nearly impossible to break.
        Some fail to realize that beauty doesn’t always have to be viewed as an unfair quality. Beauty can be displayed in the satisfying feeling after the completion of a tough workout, the excitement you get when putting on your favorite outfit and feeling confident in it, and the gratification you receive after finishing a full face of makeup. Truly, there is nothing more beautiful than witnessing someone that carries such self love and confidence for themselves. In order to obtain a high self esteem, it is necessary to take care of yourself physically and mentally. Feeling beautiful in your own skin is essential for being able to maintain a healthy state of mind. With society seeking such unattainable standards, it may be hard at times to reach this. Learning to decipher beauty in the simplest forms brings you one step closer to finding the beauty from within.
        Ultimately, the value and fairness of beauty is something that cannot be conclusively determined by one simple societal standard. Beauty holds a very complex nature and can be felt and perceived in numerous amounts of ways - from witnessing a baby's first smile, to watching the joy on a child’s face as they learn to ride their bike for the first time, and gazing upon a young couple madly in love. The value that beauty holds in our society is priceless; but the process of living up to society’s beauty standards will come at a costly price. Even though beauty is a highly valued aspect in today's world, it is in no means fair for everyone.