	There is no better time than the present to acknowledge the importance of women’s rights nationally. Hillary Clinton, one of the noble leaders in the women’s rights movement, is remembered for her renowned speech “Remarks to the UN 4th World Conference on Women Plenary Session” presented at Beijing on September of 1995. Clinton’s mission, to shine light on all the inequitable acts that women around the world face daily, is conveyed through the uses of pathos, syntax, and polysyndeton.
        Clinton fosters the appeal of pathos by reaching out to the audience and striking their emotions from within. Using words such as “you”, “we”, and “our” allows Clinton to compel the audience to care more about the issue of women’s rights. Her diction allows for people now or years down the road to feel obliged to contribute to resolving the injustices women face. The sentence “Let us heed the call so we can create a world in which every woman is treated with respect and dignity, every boy and girl is loved and cared for equally, and every family has the hope of a strong and stable future” enables Clinton to grasps the readers attention and persuade them to feel accountable in taking action to tackle the issue of women’s inequalities. Clinton further develops her appeal by including horrendous acts that women have to endure. When Clinton unmasks how women are being burned alive, killed for being born a girl, and sold into slavery, there is no doubt this ignites emotion within the recipients. Including these violent actions discloses the public to the raw torture that women are put through, and informs them of the true reality that is hidden behind closed doors. Revealing these realities will further open the public’s eyes to the injustices that women face; it gives people a sense of urgency to combat the ongoing sufferage of women.  
        Clinton’s syntax channels the variety of emotions and tones she wants to utilize to further solidify the importance of women’s rights. Adding the sentence, “Let me be clear”, in a cut and crisp manner gathers her audience’s full attention, allowing for a shift to a more serious tone. Bringing in the audience’s attention to a focal point is essential to address the awareness and graveness of the issue of women’s inequalities Clinton is trying to perpetrate. In contrast, including the sentence “The great challenge of this conference is to give voice to women everywhere whose experiences go unnoticed, whose words go unheard”, allows Clinton to share her main goals with the audience in a more descriptive manner. The length of this sentence was constructed to capture the audience’s attention in just the right amount of words to convey Clinton’s message without boring them. 
Clinton also incorporates parallel syntax to attract the audiences attention and emphasize the significance of women’s rights. In the sentence “If we take bold steps to better the lives of women, we will be taking bold steps to better the lives of children and families too”, the parallel syntax captures and leaves the audience thinking about the meaning of the simple, yet powerful statement. Her repetition of “bold steps” and “better the lives” emphasizes that changing the present conditions women live under will not only benefit the well being of women, but also the well being of children and families. This repetition helps reiterate the central meaning of the speech: to improve the welfare of women’s lives nationally.
        Clinton employs the method of polysyndeton in order to inflate and dramatize the issue of women’s inequalities. She uses this method throughout her speech to develop awareness to the current women’s right deficit. It is crucial for women’s rights to be emphasized so that the public can fully comprehend the severity of the issue, and how deeply it has grown into the roots of society. In the sentence, “I speak for them, just as each of us speaks for women around the world who are denied the chance to go to school, or see a doctor, or own property, or have a say about the direction of their lives, simply because they are women”, adding the word “or” gives off a stronger tone and adds force to the concern that women are being deprived of their basic human rights. In order for the relevance of women’s rights to be fully acknowledged, a stronger tone with added force is necessary.
        Hillary Clinton consciously chooses to use pathos, syntax, and polysyndeton to convey the importance of women’s rights, and to educate the public about their current discriminatory standings. Using these rhetorical devices is an effective start at cracking down one of societies most dangerously oppressing natures. Through her rhetorical strategies, Clinton conveys the message that when women’s rights are finally recognized, the world will be able to thrive as a whole.