        The perplexing and foreign qualities that solidify the concepts of nature and mankind are very subjective and cannot be stamped with one simple, clear-cut ideology. Due to the subjectivity of transcendentalism, it can be perceived in a myriad of ways depending on who you ask. Everyone’s logic and personal impact of nature varies along with the way they choose to carry out their lives. Our contemporary society has become centered around the ideals of individualism in conjunction with the strong yearning to submit to what you believe is morally righteous. Whether displayed through acts of protest, through an individual possessing braveness in nonconformity, or through people who choose to pursue a minimalist lifestyle, these are all latent representations of modern transcendentalism that are more difficult to distinguish with the naked eye. Without realization, we are surrounded by the conceptions of transcendentalism. The philosophy of transcendentalism - the support of a simplistic lifestyle with a nonconformist mindset - is still a prevalent culture that is utilized in our modern society.
        One of the most identifiable and evident traits of transcendentalism in our modern culture is the practice of one's inner voice and given ability to choose to follow what is morally right and wrong. Our society is geared to put all of our faith into the government to deem what acts are “right” and “wrong”. Instead of relying solely on the law and what the government labels as right and wrong, transcendentalism encourages us to trust our own intuitions and instead follow what we think is morally right and wrong. To back up this viewpoint, Thoreau states “Can there not be a government in which majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience” (Source D). The government may not always have the public's best interest at heart; their intentions being consumed by materialistic items and monetary values. Many people of higher power or individuals associated with the government “lack the oral sense for a nickel or some other thing above its value” (Source E) and need to incorporate the moral sense into their lives because it “teaches us what is right, and how to avoid it - when unpopular” (Source E). If the hierarchy of the United States started to make decisions based off of their moral notions and not what the law believes, there would be a noticeable shift in the culture of America as we now know it. With choosing to follow your moral compass, conjointly favoring to employ one's inner voice goes hand in hand. The exercise of free speech and voicing your personal opinion can be best seen through recent acts of protest that have broken out. One protest that was particularly significant among American dealt with a football player in the NFL. Choosing to follow what he believed was morally appropriate, Colin Kaepernick took a knee during the national anthem preluding the start of a game in spite of social and racial injustice - notably concerning police brutality. The act of a single football player nonconforming to conflicting beliefs later ricochet into a wide scale ordeal, involving the participation of almost every NFL team. What later comes into conflict with the NFL protest are the two sides associated with it. On one side, people believe that these daring athletes chose to follow what they believed was morally acceptable and their actions were protected by their first amendment rights. On the other side, however, people believed that the act of kneeling during the national anthem was extremely disrespectful towards the individuals who serve our country and didn’t coincide with the “American way”. With society incorporating the ethics of transcendentalism into our present day, are these said beliefs now being preconceived as non-american and going against the American way? Dilemmas like these brought out by the NFL protest put at query whether our natural-born rights are really protecting us and if they are potentially harming or modifying the American way of life.
        Another prominent feature of transcendentalism that can be found in our present-day culture is the transformation into individualism that our society has undergone. The deviation in society encourages each and every person to make use of oneself and mind, and to utilize one's personal thoughts to later transpire them onto others. Emerson contributes to the idea that “to believe your own thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men, - that is genius” (Source C). When given the ability to pursue your own thoughts and live them out, it is almost frivolous to not take the advantage and opportunities that will lead to self fulfillment and solidarity. A prime example of an active member of society who took charge of their individualistic fortuitous was Martin Luther King Jr. During times when segregation and racism were at an all time high, MLK Jr. consciously chose to put on non-violent protests and formed groups in attempt to reach the goal of equality - despite a multitudinous of adversities that he had to face along the way. With the qualities of perseverance and strength that MLK Jr. ruled with, he was able to reach his goal of equality for all. All of MLK Jr’s achievements wouldn’t have been accomplished if he never resorted to the use of his individualistic abilities and followed what he truly believed. This noble leader is still remembered for his extensive contributions to society and the ways he used transcendentalism to better the future of our nation.
        When thinking about nature, most people don’t believe it is as valued in our current society due to our obsession for materialistic and technological goods. Our culture is embedded in the ideals that only the abundance of tangible items (ie electronics, phones, designer wear) and having lots of money can lead to happiness and self fulfillment. These items may grant temporary happiness, but they will never lead to the same gratification that nature provides you if you allow it to. The pressures that society puts on us to live up to these standards in order to compete with others and obtain the most valuable items creates lots of stress. The ultimate escape from these stresses and hardships that life springs upon us is to rely on the twists of simplicity and nature. Emerson says that while among nature, he feels that “nothing can befall me in life, - no disgrace, no calamity, (leaving my eyes), which nature cannot repair” (Source A). The contentment and amity that nature provides is incomparable to the enjoyment that the use of a phone can give you. Thoreau also orates the principles of “simplicity, simplicity, simplicity” (Source B) in order to succumb to a life that is lived deliberately and full of serenity. When taking into account the role of nature in our current society, a distinct point to focus on are national parks: conserved land that is maintained for the public in use of recreation and personal enjoyment. The fact that national parks still hold their value and are visited annually among the citizens of the US prove that our current nation still employs the nature branch of transcendentalism - regardless of what many believe.
        From the mid-1800’s to now, transcendentalism is still an ubiquitous matter that holds rein over our society and has greatly influenced American culture. Whether it be through speaking up for what you believe in, following the ideals of individualism, or believing in the concepts of nature, transcendentalism is still something that we are surrounded by and will continue to be for generations to come.