      People who are unsatisfied with their lives often use different coping mechanisms to deal with their low self-esteem. James Thurber’s The Secret Life of Walter Mitty follows Mr. Walter Mitty on an average day through the city. Along the way to Mrs. Mitty’s hair salon, she chastises Walter Mitty for driving too fast and interrupts a daydream about a navy hydroplane fighting through a hurricane. When the car arrives to her hair salon, Mrs. Mitty reminds her husband to buy overshoes and starts him on a journey throughout the city. Mitty dreams of a sick millionaire who can only be cured by Mitty’s skilled medical talents, as he passes a hospital. Later, he dreams that he is a criminal on the witness stand and is being questioned about a murder. The story ends with Mitty imagining his own death by a death squad. The Secret Life of Walter Mitty is ultimately a tragic story following the day of a lonely man who wishes he had been an accomplished professional, an admired lover, and a courageous individual. 
	Walter Mitty is an under-accomplished fellow who brims with the need to be a more adept man. Mitty was at a stoplight when the traffic cop castigated him for sitting too long, and he raced on to avoid angering the officer. Passing a hospital, Walter Mitty as capitated by another vision in which he was a prestigious doctor who was the only hope for a millionaire: “‘If you would take over, Mitty?’ Mitty looked at him and at the craven figure of Benbow, who drank, and at the rave uncertain faces of the two great specialists. ‘If you wish,’ he said” (Thurber 3). Dr. Renshaw and Dr. Benbow, the two doctors in charge of the banker, and the two specialists called in from New York and London were all clearly incapable of pulling off the possibly life-saving operation for the banker. Four doctors, two of which are specialized for this case, all looked to Dr. Mitty in the hopes that he would be more skilled than them, and therefore more qualified to perform the procedure. Mitty describes Dr. Benbow as “craven”, or timid and afraid, and even provided the extra information that the man was an alcoholic. Thus, Dr. Benbow is unfit to do the operation by Mitty’s standards, while Dr, Renshaw is definitely not confident enough to do the operation himself since he asked Dr. Mitty to step in for them. Then the two specialists, who naturally should understand the banker’s illness since they are specialized, or trained for this particular subtopic of medicine. All of the doctors, excluding Mitty, being unable to help the millionaire banker is extremely unlikely. Mitty’s mind is using this vision as a coping mechanism for the fact that he is unsatisfied with his lack of professional knowledge. There is no evidence to support that he is anymore than an average individual in the working class, and to survive with some of his sanity in tact Mitty has this vision in which he could be an sapient doctor that is the only hope for a millionaire patient. Mitty wishes to be a competent professional, however he also wishes that he were a man that would stand up for his loved ones and who is laudable enough to be admired by anothe
      Mitty’s vision of a star-crossed love between a girl and a criminal is an example of his desire to be admired and deeply loved by another human being. Mrs. Mitty is very distant from her husband, and the damage of their relationship places a lot of stress on Mitty’s shoulders. The lack of love between the two is obvious in the way that Mitty’s wife sends him on errands while she can sit back and be pampered in a salon. Mitty even admits that he detests the weekly trips to the city because he always forgets one of the items on his wife’s list, and that “he gave it up. But she would remember it” (Thurer 4). MItty feels annoyance towards his wife, clearly resentful of her nagging and know-it-all habits. Coincidentally, while trying to frustratingly recall one of the items she had twice reminded him to get, Mitty has another vision: 
‘I could have killed Gregory Fitzhurst at three hundred feet with my left hand.’ Pandemonium broke loose in the courtroom…and suddenly a lovely, dark-haired girl was in Walter Mitty’s arms. The District Attorney struck at her savagely… Mitty led the man have it on the point of the chin. (Thurber 5)
Mitty had just confessed that he could have killed the victim, and a beautiful girl threw herself into Mitty’s arms, where he fiercely defends her from the violent blows of the District Attorney. The girl is not described as random, and Mitty does not react in surprise, so the reader can assume that the couple are quite acquainted. Mitty displays the extent of his courage by not only confessing to the murder, but by committing a serious offense in hitting the attorney and thereby protecting the girl. The penalty for such an act could be additional jail-time to the already guilty sentence he will receive. He obviously does not care. This vision sharply contrasts with the annoyance he previously felt towards his wife by  showing the reader the extent of Mitty’s desire to be an impressive man who would stand up for the people he loved. Mitty’s vision displays one example of Mitty’s boldness, yet this trait becomes the main idea of his final vision. 
	Mr. Mitty has a final vision of himself dying a dignified death by a firing squad represents Mitty’s belief that he is secretly a brave and independent person that is capable of fearlessly facing death. Mitty was waiting for his wife outside of a drugstore after she told him that she would only be a moment, which turned out to not be the case. While smoking a cigarette and leaning against the wall, Mitty dreams that with a “faint, fleeting smile playing about his lips, he faced the firing squad; erect and motionless, proud and disdainful, Walter Mitty the Undefeated, inscrutable to the last” (Thurber 7). Mitty is dreaming of a noble and honorable death by firing squad. Mitty describes himself as “erect and motionless” in order to personify the fearless stance of someone condemned to die. Generally, people are afraid to die and be thrust into the unknown. Often times people even beg for mercy in order to avoid this mysterious fate. However, Mitty sees himself as dauntless, and stands unmoved by the terrifying image of a firing squad. The reader is provided with insight into Mitty’s true personality at this point. He is trying to prove to himself that he is a brave man who could stare death in the face and smile, not run away and hide. In addition, Mitty uses the very particular word “inscrutable” as his last description of himself. His last words tell the reader that he cannot be analyzed, that no one has ever known the “true” Walter Mitty. 
	Walter Mitty believes he has an impotent life and copes with his low self-esteem by dreaming of himself as a capable doctor, courageously honest and loved criminal, and a brave man who could smile innocently at death. After passing a hospital, Mitty dreams that he is the only doctor out of doctors, the other four being incompetent, that can save a rich banker’s life. The dream is Mitty’s attempt to prove to himself that he is smart and talented. Later, Mitty dreams that he is a criminal that willingly confesses to murder in the trial, then hits the attorney as a penalty for the District attorney hitting the girl who had flown into Mitty’s arms. The story finally ends with Mitty facing a death squad and imagining that he would be still and silent, yet still smirking, as he accepted his inevitable death. Mitty characterizes himself as unknowable to anyone else, representing his belief that no one will ever be able to understand Mitty. The author, in this way, even sneaks in the a message to the reader that they should not judge someone based on appearance. 
