      One may have to ask themselves the very difficult question of how guilty or innocent a criminal is when they have been manipulated by another criminal. William Shakespeare’s Macbeth follows the quick rise and inevitable fall of Macbeth, a once noble and prestigious warrior, in thirteenth century Scotland . Throughout the play, Macbeth is manipulated and controlled, causing his gradual transformation from a revered hero to a detested tyrant. The conflict of the play develops when Banquo and Macbeth meet three witches, known as the Weïrd Sisters, who greet them in the forest with a prophecy. Macbeth is shocked when a messenger confirms the first part of the revelation. He sends a letter to Lady Macbeth, explaining the strange appearance of the witches and their predictions which had already in part come true. Lady Macbeth formulates a plan to persuade Macbeth to murder King Duncan, thereby making Macbeth King of Scotland. Macbeth later orders murderers to kill Banquo and his son, Fleance, so that he could secure the kingship for himself and his kin. Macbeth, desperate for more foretellings of the future that may strengthen his authority, spoke again with the Weïrd Sisters, who showed him three apparitions. The prophecy told by the apparitions unfortunately had treacherous loopholes hidden within it, and Macbeth was defeated and beheaded by Macduff. Macbeth is a pathetically weak protagonist who has no  control throughout the play despite the power he gained from his heinous crimes; the other main forces forces of the play, including the the Weïrd Sisters and their misleading and mystical prophecies, Lady Macbeth with her sharp ambition and cunning words, and Macbeth’s own unquenchable satisfaction, take agency over Macbeth’s inner conscience.
      The Weïrd Sisters control Macbeth throughout the play by fabricating the future and including intentionally ambiguous language in their revelations. The first prophecy encourages tension between Macbeth and Banquo, and eventually lead Macbeth to have Banquo and his son murdered. The witches enigmatically compare Banquo to Macbeth, claiming that Banquo is  “Lesser than Macbeth and greater. / Not so happy, yet much happier. / Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none” (Shakespeare 1.3.68-70). The Sisters claim that Banquo is simultaneously superior and inferior, in addition to more contented and more despondent, than Macbeth. The language used by the witches is contradictory, vague, and cryptic, and they do not explain in what ways they are comparing Banquo and Macbeth. Macbeth interprets the witches’ meaning as a direct correlation to the previous parts of the revelation, believing that Macbeth is going to be of higher rank than Banquo (Macbeth is “greater” than Banquo), while Banquo’s whole bloodline will be royal (Macbeth is “lesser” than Banquo). However, Fleance (Banquo’s eldest son) never becomes king by the end of Macbeth. Since that part of the prophecy never manifests into the reality of Macbeth, the Sisters’ initial prognosis should be null because they would have seen Macbeth changing the future, and then they would not have bothered vocalizing this revelation. Additionally, weïrd, from the Weïrd Sisters’ title, refers to fate and foretelling of destiny. Logic cannot allow for the witches to accidentally tell Banquo that his sons will be kings, especially when telling the future is their art. Unless, the Weird Sisters intentionally lied about Banquo’s destiny, and simply created that part of the prophecy in an attempt to encourage Macbeth to have Banquo and his son killed. Banquo’s death, and the appearance of his ghost who torments Macbeth soon after, is a pivotal event in Macbeth's downward spiral from grace. He becomes much more agitated and obsessed with power after that moment in the play. The witches would certainly love to see a revered man as high ranking as a Thane become king, the highest point a man could possibly achieve at that time period, and then morph into a loathed villain and fall to the lowest point of being hated by all of Scotland. The Sisters can then be responsible for the massive tidal waves that overturned the natural order of the Scottish hierarchy. The Weïrd Sisters would also gain vengeance on Macbeth and Banquo for mocking them; upon seeing the witches, Banquo jokes “you should be women, / And yet your beards forbid me to interpret / That you are so” (Shakespeare 1.3.47 - 49). Banquo basically says that The witches are not women, and he really does not acknowledge that they are even human because he does not refer to them as men either. The witches may not seem to be moved by these snide comments, yet one may notice that Macbeth opens with the Sisters making arrangements to “meet with Macbeth”(Shakespeare 1.1.8), and not Banquo. Only later (after Banquo mocks them) do the witches even mention Banquo. The witches clearly have the motive and the power to manipulate Macbeth, so nothing stops them from purposefully pushing Macbeth towards a darker, more sinister path than if he had taken a different road through the forest that day. Macbeth is powerless to stop them, especially once Lady Macbeth hears of his destiny for power. 
      Lady Macbeth persuades Macbeth to murder King Duncan so that he may become king; Macbeth battles with his conscience while trying to obey Lady Macbeth, and destroys his moral compass in the process. After Lady Macbeth received Macbeth’s letter, she decided that Macbeth must become king, so Duncan had to be removed. When she tells Macbeth of her plan, she finds little resistance: “Lady Macbeth: He [King Duncan] that’s coming / Must be provided for… Macbeth: We will speak further” (Shakespeare 1.6.78 - 83). Lady Macbeth knows King Duncan is coming to Macbeth’s castle to stay a night. Instead of immediately cutting Lady Macbeth’s plan to kill King Duncan, Macbeth simply says that they could discuss it later, as if the matter were a basic chore and not cold, calculated murder. Macbeth’s weak inner character is glimpsed in this scene, for he allows his wife to push him around and he clearly lacks the ability to successfully refuse her. That night, Lady Macbeth and Macbeth have a small argument until Lady Macbeth at last convinced Macbeth to commit the dreadful deed. Macbeth says “I am settled and bend up / Each corporal agent to this terrible feat...False face must hide what the false heart doth know” (Shakespeare 1.7.92 - 96). Macbeth has decided that he will do as Lady Macbeth requests, and will exercise all of his power towards the completion of the dastardly task. Macbeth takes an extremely dangerous step in the wrong direction when he says this quote, for the audience sees a very clear shift in Macbeth’s demeanor. Lady Macbeth has managed to alter Macbeth’s personality from a loyal and honorable man to that of a two faced killer. Macbeth’s moral compass is now bent in the wrong direction, and the thought that Lady Macbeth was able convince Macbeth to commit murder at all, let alone in one night, deeply disturbs the reader.  However, once Lady Macbeth awakened Macbeth’s new dark side, Macbeth was not able to turn himself back to the good side. Without moral restraint, Macbeth is vulnerable to his ambition and deep-rooted love for power which direct his decision-making for the rest of the play. 
      The force that manipulated Macbeth the most throughout Macbeth was his own flawed character; specifically, Macbeth’s greedy thirst for power and his discontentment went unchecked and left Macbeth vulnerable to the agency of other entities in the play. Once King Duncan was dead, and his heirs had fled, Macbeth remembered that Banquo’s son was destined to be the next ruler. Macbeth, now drastically different from the man who felt intense remorse and crippling guilt before killing Duncan, hires murderers to accomplish the job for him. Macbeth told Lady Macbeth, “Let your remembrance / Apply to Banquo…make our faces vizards to our hearts, / Disguising what they are” (Shakespeare 3.2.34 - 49). Macbeth tells Lady Macbeth nearly the same advice that she had previously told him: to pretend that all is well and normal, while knowing that terrible acts will be committed later. Macbeth implies ill will towards Banquo without even telling Lady Macbeth that he plans to have Banquo murdered. Ironically, Lady Macbeth tells him that he should not continue with his plot against Banquo and Fleance. Then Macbeth reveals the nature of his ambition and motive: “O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife! / Thou know’st that Banquo and his Fleance lives” (Shakespeare 3.2.42). Macbeth references the prophecy of the Weird Sisters, reminding Lady Macbeth that as long as Fleance is alive, Macbeth could lose his throne to him. He also complains that scorpions fill his mind, unsurprisingly because he is battling with the remnants of his humanity. Banquo was once Macbeth’s friend, and he finds difficulty (though very little of it) in condemning his one-time friend and friend’s son to death in order to feed his compulsion for power. Macbeth, who just weeks ago never believed he would amount to more than Thane of Glamis, now will not even be content at rulership level. Macbeth is compelled now by his ardor for power to hold on to the throne for as long as possible, and even beyond that save the throne for his own sons. Macbeth clearly has taken the dominant voice in his relationship with Lady Macbeth, and never directly tells his wife exactly what he plans to do to Banquo and Fleance. Macbeth definitively contrasts with Lady Macbeth in that he has lost the moral compass which Lady Macbeth seemingly Gaines. Macbeth could not resist returning to the Weird Sisters, for he desperately needed confirmation of his firm and long-lasting hold over Scotland. The Sisters showed him the apparitions, one of whom told him that “none of woman born / Shall harm Macbeth” (Shakespeare 4.1.91 - 92). No man born from a woman could fatally wound Macbeth, and he confidently commented that he did not fear Macduff, for he, like every man, was born from a woman. Macbeth discounted the earlier warning to beware Macduff. The apparition was very particular in his language however, and clearly stated that no one who was born from a woman could harm Macbeth, yet Macduff had been taken from his mother’s womb. Macduff’s unnatural birth provided an outlet for Macduff to be the hero who decapitates, thereby vanquishing, Macbeth. Macbeth’s own petty dissatisfaction was the last burst of fuel that drove him to the Weird Sisters, who provided him with a translucent cloud of security that obscured his view from the true reality of his peril. 
      During Macbeth’s total transformation from noble thane to royal despot, he revealed his weak persona and made himself vulnerable to the agency of the other main characters in the play, including the Weird Sisters, Lady Macbeth, and the imperfections of his own character. The Weird Sisters used their first prophecy as a chance to steal vengeance and wreak anarchy and disarray. The witches manipulate Macbeth by seeding the tension which lead Macbeth to kill his friend and friend’s son, who escaped yet never became king (as the revelation had falsely predicted). The witches provided Lady Macbeth with the opportunity of convincing Macbeth to kill Duncan, which ultimately resulted not only of the death of King Duncan and the anointment of Macbeth as king, but also the death of Macbeth’s humanity and the awakening of his ambition and greed. Lady Macbeth gave Macbeth the extra push that was needed to force him over the edge into the dark abyss of his own character. Macbeth soon left Lady Macbeth’s control, and allowed his need for power and wealth by hiring murderers to secretly kill Banquo and Fleance, the only obstacles Macbeth truly feared for he had been told by the witches that Banquo’s sons would be kings. Macbeth was only appeased for a short while before he demanded more fate-foretellings from the Weird Sisters. The apparitions they revealed told him a prophecy which at last satisfied him; sadly, they served their purpose too well, for Macbeth was so content and comfortable in his castle, that he never doubted the prognosis of the sisters. He was killed by Macduff. In this way, Macbeth’s quest for power and his unfortunate inability to be content with his situation drove him into a downward spiral which resulted in a clear repayment of his bad karma.




