      Crackling laughter erupted and pressed at my back, burning the blush of embarrassment across my cheeks. They fed off of the unease spreading through my bloodstream and stiffening my limbs with frost. Only seconds before, my body had quaked with the force of unabashed laughter warming the autumn chill of the lunchroom. Now, I could not even muster the strength to catch the most evanescent glance of the battle stage behind me as she raced to confront the table of students who had been denigrating me. 
      Beah is one of the greatest friends I’ve ever had. Surprisingly, we might never have been so close had we not had the same lunch last year, when some students began to vilify my laugh. Even now, she is still the Beah who makes funny duck faces at the silly antics of people on the internet and the sassy girl who will pass tremendous judgement upon you for the one time you stole her raspberries and mac&cheese (believe me, I never hear the end of it). Yet she’s more than that and proved it in the lunchroom when she told some random bullies just where they could go if they decided not to stop messing with me. I was in awe of her fierceness, the force of her will and the ferocity with which she could and would defend her friends. She was certainly no bystander. 
      One day, Beah suddenly leaned into me and whispered in a surreptitiously serious tone, “Stephi, that table behind you is making fun of you.” I followed her line of vision and turned to gaze into the sea of hungry mammals as conspicuously as only I can manage, only to find that the particular monsters in question had already blended into the backdrop of the lunchroom. I shrugged my shoulders and continued lunch. Making fun of me was easy: just imitate my laugh as “accurately” (in no sense of the word) as you can, and bask in the cold freedom of suffering no consequences. I ignored and ignored and ignored and waited for them to give up. Beah was insistent from the beginning: 
      “Stephi, you have to stick up for yourself, I can’t just let you sit here and be miserable for half an hour everyday!” she cried, indignantly flabbergasted at my refusal to so much as acknowledge that there was an issue or that my gradual descent into silence was at all linked to the harriers at my back.  Finally, she tried a new tactic. “Stephi, if you’re uncomfortable I’ll go talk to them, I won’t let those brats sit here and ruin your right to eat lunch in peace for the rest of the semester.” I answered earnestly, “Please, PLEASE do NOT do anything. I didn’t even notice, it’s fine, I’m fine, everything’s fine.” She pursed her lips and raised her dusty brown eyebrows, the dramatic black wings flying from her long eyelashes and framing her chocolate eyes completed the image: she was not convinced. With that, I watched her leap out of her seat, her indignation becoming a spring that launched her from the lunch table to the battle stage set at the table behind me. 
      In my desperation, I could not muster the strength to look. However, I imagine the scene was something like this: a short young woman prowls angrily towards the teens, her hair bristling with the rush of adrenaline. The helpless prey look back with expressions of amusement, underestimating the power of her iron will. Their defenses are poor, Beah is on them in seconds. “What do you think you’re doing?!” Phones click like the sounds swarming beetles, flashes burst across her vision like sparks from a live wire, a recording starts with a beep as inaudible as a whisper, but she stands fearlessly resolute in the frigid eyes of the internet. “Nothing,” they deflect, or neglect to answer. “If you don’t stop making fun of my friend, I’m going to report all of you.” This icy tone coming from anyone else’s mouth might have been a bluff. Beah is no bluffer. A teacher, the lunch monitor, shuffles up to disband what the entire lunchroom desperately wants to be a fight. Finally, the temptation, desire, need to look at the carnage behind me bolstered my courage, and I caught a glimpse of Beah as she left the scene with fire blazing in her path, stalking directly to the principal’s office. 
      If only she hadn’t confronted them!  I thought, resigning myself to the disappointment that the principal would probably do nothing. Lunch ended, I went back to class, the next day began, and the bell for lunch rang. I saw none other than the teens from the troublesome table in the principal’s office, presumably awaiting punishment. When I sat down to eat, Beah optimistically notified me that the guilty students were now enduring the unpleasant scolding of Mrs. Draweck[1], the Designated Disciplinary Director. However, rather than praise my triumphant friend and bestow my eternal gratitude upon her head of dark red velvet, I crumpled, “Oh no, Beah, their[2] gonna be so mad, oh no we’re never gonna hear the end of it, oh no they’re gonna want revenge because now they’re in trouble because of us oh no no no no…” Sure enough, the students came back and continued the lunchtime rhythm: my friends’ silly tomfoolery blended into my gleefully rambunctious guffaw, all floating above a sinister base of snide remarks and derisive laughter. Yet Beah remained unphased by the lack of progress, and refused to resign herself to watching for the next three months as a bunch of boring and pathetic tough guys and gossip girls made me feel inferior and embarrassed about a triviality that made me unique, if a little strange. 
      Again lunch ended, I escaped to class, the next day tripped into the former, and the bell shrieked for the start of lunch. I dragged my feet to lunch, and immediately the cackles and howls and criticisms wafted into my midst. “What a freak,” “she’s so weird,” “haha, do it again, that was right on,” “I can’t believe she went to Mrs. Draweck,” “what a—” This last remark was never finished, as Mrs. Draweck herself loomed behind them. I turned to watch as they all stood up, gathering their bags and trays, and began trudging like guilty dogs with their tails tucked between their legs, to an unknown location across the lunchroom. Problem solved. 
      I have always felt deep gratitude to Beah since that moment. The incident occurred over the span of a few days, though it felt longer. I regret letting those students pick on me for more than a few minutes, let alone a few days, and I regret needing Beah to stick up for me, I should have had the courage to do so myself, and I especially regret trying to hold her back from doing the one thing she desperately wanted to do: help. Even with all these regrets, my gratitude outweighs them all by far. I am so grateful that I had someone as clever and sassy and loyal as Beah, and I am even more grateful that I still have her to force me to stick up for myself every time another third derivative of a position function (jerk) rolls into town. 

