	The power of the media is always active in people’s lives, changing entire countries, and always affecting the course of history. In the book The Bonfire of the Vanities by Tom Wolfe Sherman McCoy and several other characters finds out about the horrifying power of the media, and its effect it can have on groups of people and individuals. Sherman is brutally mistreated, thrown in jail, and has his name dragged through the mud, all through the power of the media. The power of the media can change in a moment, and can also change people’s minds in a moment. The power of the media can affect people as a mob, or can change people’s lives in the instant the media is available for the world to see.
	The power of the media can motivate people with positions of power to act in ways they normally wouldn’t act. Abe Weiss is the district attorney who is running for mayor of New York City. When a case involving a hit-and-run of an African American kid, Henry Lamb, is ignored, the press finds out about it and makes a huge deal about it. When one of the assistant D.A.s are around investigating the case, Larry Kramer, he finds out that the television is filming a sign saying “WEISS JUSTICE IS WHITE JUSTICE”, and discusses it with a detective, Goldberg. “’If they show that on TV, Weiss’s gonna @#%&ing freak out.’ ‘S’already freaked out, if you ask me,’” (Wolfe 309). A picture of the sign is shown in the newspaper the next morning. That very day, people are interviewed for being possible culprits of the crime. Weiss was motivated to act by the media to prove that he was not racist, and his motivation paid off later in the book. 
       Later in the book The Bonfire of the Vanities, Larry Kramer is called to investigate after Henry Lamb was hit by a Mercedes Benz. When he is given information from his mother, Mrs. Lamb, he decides that the information given, while good information is useless since there is not enough to go forward with a full investigation and arrest. So, Peter Fallow, a newspaper writer, writes a story for the City Light. “’There’s a big article on page 3 about this Henry Lamb case. Claims the cops are dragging their feet. Claims we are, too. Says you told this Mrs. Lamb the information you gave her was useless. It’s a big article.’…..’That’s absolute @#$%&, Bernie! I told her the @#%&ing opposite! I said it was a good lead she gave us! It was just that it wasn’t enough to build a case out of.’” (Wolfe 257) The newspaper twisted around Larry’s words, since it was a better story. No one would want to listen to the story of a case that didn’t have enough evidence. People would, however, listen to a case that is good but the cops wouldn’t do anything about. The power of the media changed around Larry’s words, and made put down the police system. The power of the media can raise people up, or put people down at its leisure.
      When the entire city is looking for the car that hit Henry Lamb, something that was happening because the media brought attention to it, Sherman McCoy, a supposed millionaire, is hiding, hoping, praying that they won’t find his car. However, the media soon took care of that. “RF-Mercedes-Benz-the data in the pages of a million newspapers-went through Sherman’s solar plexus like a tremendous vibration. His license plate began: RFH. With a horrifying hunger for the news of his own doom, he read on.” (Wolfe 249) Sherman knows that the newspaper is broadcasting his problem around the entire city, and there’s nothing he can do about it. It is one thing to be beaten down silently, as Henry Lamb was, but it is another thing to be beaten down publically with everyone watching your failure. Sherman realizes this, and knows that he is doomed.
      
	The power of the media is not an influential power only seen in books like The Bonfire of the Vanities, but it is also seen in real life. For example, bullying is a real problem, but some people try to deny its existence, or even worse, try to justify it. People try to do something about it, but sometimes one person or several people can’t do anything about it. However, when attention is brought to it through the media, people quickly try to change their stand on whether bullying is good or not. News is spread through the media, and since most people have an opinion, the media will have you making an opinion about something. Bullying’s end will begin with the media. The power of the media is one of the most powerful powers in the world.
