	In 1517, Martin Luther wrote the Ninety-Five Theses, a document outlining the faults of the Roman Catholic Church in 16th century Western Europe. Though not his intent, the Roman Catholic Church would undergo a great schism, and would separate to form Protestant and Catholic Churches. Among these Protestant churches, the Lutheran Church most closely aligned itself with the teachings of Luther. About 450 years later, ecumenical talks between the Roman Catholic Church and the Lutheran Church would commence in the July of 1964. Talks continue to persist to this day, and thus talks, while going slowly, have made real progress, as areas of similarities and differences have been defined in important documents.
	On October 11, 1962, Pope John XXIII initiated the 21st Catholic Ecumenical Council – Vatican II. In 1964, while the Council was still in session, the document Unitatis Redintegratio, or “Restoration of Unity,” was released. This document stated Christ did not want His church to be split, and thus it is sinful to have multiple Christian denominations in the world: “Such division openly contradicts the will of Christ, scandalizes the world, and damages the holy cause of preaching the Gospel to every creature” (Unitatis). Thus, the Catholic Church began to express a deep desire to reunite with other churches it considered schismatic or even heretical. While the document places a special emphasis on the reunification of the Catholic Church and “Eastern” Churches, as the churches share a common history and near-identical values, it also acknowledges ecumenism with Protestant Church is something to be sought after as well, despite differences being more stark: “It must however be admitted that in these [Protestant] Churches and ecclesial Communities there exist important differences from the Catholic Church, not only of a historical, sociological, psychological and cultural character, but especially in the interpretation of revealed truth” (Unitatis). Furthermore, the document points out there is a multitude of Protestant Churches, and to attempt to reunite with all would be difficult. However, the document states ecumenism wherever possible is a good thing, and thus must always be sought after, and thus talks between Lutherans and Catholics commenced and were intended to be held at a regular basis.
      Just eight months after the Vatican released Unitatis Redintegratio, representatives of the Roman Catholic Church and Lutheran Churches met, and produced The Status of the Nicene Creed as Dogma of the Church. The document simply acknowledges both churches hold the same profession of faith, the Nicene Creed. The document makes no headway in bridging the gaps between the churches, but by accepting the Nicene Creed, both churches accept a framework with which to work with to make future concessions. Throughout the 1960s, in building stronger foundations of unity, many documents were released which simply attempted to acknowledge things which both churches agreed upon so that the churches, when working upon disagreements, knew which frame of reference they could use to argue. In 1966, One Baptism for the Remission of Sins was published, which utilized Paul’s famous line in Ephesians in which he claimed there was “one baptism” (Ephesians 4:5c), and in 1967 The Eucharist was released, which stated both churches recognize the Eucharist as a sacrifice and the Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist. Finally, in 1970, Eucharist and Ministry was released, which stated both churches agreed on the nature of how an ordination is to operate: it is done “on behalf of Christ, conferred in the power of the Holy Spirit, [and] is for life and not subject to temporal limitations” (Eucharist and Ministry). The similarities of each churches’ ministry are further recognized in The Declaration on the Way. Of course, the documents acknowledged obstructions to unity, as differences in church culture, such as the Lutheran refusal to use the word “transubstantiation” would also present differences in interpreting the Word of God and His will. Another obstacle would be simply church worship: “There is a significant convergence in the actual practice of eucharistic worship. Doctrine is inevitably interpreted in the light of practice, as well as vice versa, and consequently oppositions on this level can negate apparent doctrinal agreement” (The Eucharist). And of course, perhaps the biggest obstacle would be the relationship between Church and Scripture – how the Word of God is to be interpreted. Of course, both churches knew this, and would tackle it in the next document released, Papal Primacy and the Universality of the Church. 
      The Vatican separates Lutheran-Catholic ecumenical dialogue as having four stages. The first stage held all documents mentioned till now, and focused on shared theology. The second stage began with the release of Papal Primacy and the Universality of the Church, and focused largely on differences. This document recognized the work done by previous sessions, and stated: “It is within this context that we have considered papal primacy” (Papal). The document also notes it will not try to tackle papal infallibility, as it is another issue. As Lutherans already have authorities placed from local levels to national levels, the document simply askes the question as to whether Lutherans would find it acceptable to have a universal authority. Of course, that authority does not need to take the form of the Pope, as in history protestant theologians in general have downplayed the necessity of having a Pope. The document does point out the scriptural and historical importance of Peter, and Lutherans do concede the papacy may be legitimate provided its focus be shifted: “The one thing necessary, from the Lutheran point of view, is that papal primacy be so structured and interpreted that it clearly serve the gospel and the unity of the church of Christ, and that its exercise of power not subvert Christian freedom” (Papal). The next document released, Teaching Authority & Infallibility in the Church, published in 1978, attempted to tie up the ends left hanging in Papal Primacy and the Universality of the Church, as it talked about papal infallibility. This topic is extremely difficult, as it is a major stumbling block for all churches seeking ecumenism with the Catholic Church, as this doctrine is unique to the Catholic Church. Wisely, the document built off the previous one, as it quickly acknowledges Lutherans are open to the idea of papal primacy. The document points out both churches believe in the “indefectibility of the Church” (Teaching), given by the Holy Spirit, which is the exact same thing as papal infallibility, just given to the church. Both churches concede the absolute authority of Jesus Christ, and how the authority has been passed down into His churches and all that a church would encompass, such as its liturgy and history. However, the document does not come to a compromise: “This, to be sure, is not yet full agreement… Lutherans, as well as many Catholics, believe that the doctrine and practice of papal teaching authority and infallibility are not yet sufficiently protected against abuses… [and] think that Catholics have overconfidently identified the locus of the work of the Spirit with a particular person or office” (Teaching). The other biggest difference between Protestants and Catholics has always been the question of how faith and good works play into salvation, and in 1983 Justification by Faith was released, which attempted to engage this issue. However, what the document really did was attempt to set up the groundwork for future talks. The document evaluated how church fathers and the church in history have claimed humanity is justified. It analyzes the arguments made by both sides during the Reformation, and looks at what Scripture has to say on the justification of humanity. Towards the end of the document, Lutheran authors leave open the possibility of further talks as the Lutheran Church “does not exclude the traditional Catholic position that the grace-wrought transformation of sinners is a necessary preparation for final salvation (Justification)”.
      Talks continued into the 1990s, but it was not until 1999 when both churches began to take real steps together. Utilizing the discovery of common ground, Catholic Church's Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity and the Lutheran World Federation issued the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification. The document seeks to use every statement made up till now, and attempts to now reconcile the Catholic and Lutheran positions on how we are saved. It points out Lutherans believe humans are saved by faith alone, and Catholics believe faith is the fundamental part of salvation. It is pointed out true faith in Jesus Christ is accompanied by the fact “Such a faith is active in love and thus the Christian cannot and should not remain without works” (Joint Declaration), pointing out one cannot have faith without good works. It is not through good works one is saved, but good works always accompany faith. Furthermore, the document annuls the excommunications, or condemnations the Catholic Church laid upon the Lutheran Church after the council of Trent, claiming “The teaching of the Lutheran churches presented in this Declaration does not fall under the condemnations from the Council of Trent” (Joint Declaration). This is the first real push towards ecumenism, as it actually reconciles an enormous chasm between the two churches in a document sanctioned by both churches.
      The fourth phase of the Lutheran-Catholic Dialogue involved the discussing of ecclesiology. In 2005, The Church as Koinonia of Salvation: Its Structures and Ministries, was released to reconcile the theology of Catholic liturgy with the theology of the Lutheran liturgy. Catholics affirmed a local church and its congregation as part of the people of God, while Lutherans “have generally held that the congregation is church in the full sense” (Koinonia). This issue, of course, leads back to the idea of superiority and authority in the church, which will ultimately fall under the issue of who and what the Pope is. However, the document goes on to consider both churches share koinonia, or communion, ecclesiology – the idea that a church is a communion of God to the people, and does not operate alone. The Lutheran Church is more decentralized than the Catholic Church, but it sees itself as “a communion of churches which confess the triune God, agree in the proclamation of the Word of God and are united in pulpit and altar fellowship” (Koinonia), not one church as the Roman Catholic Church does. The document does not come to a resolution on this issue, but continues to lay the groundwork for another document such as the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification. In continuing to define what the church is, in 2006 the document Apostolicity of the Church was released. The document continues to talk about the role of a universal church, and actually claims “there is no controversy between Lutherans and Catholics concerning the essential relation between each worshipping congregation and the universal church… But there is a dispute about what intensity and what structure this relation to the universal church must have for the worshipping congregations” (Apostolicity). The document comes close to talking about apostolic succession, a major point of contention between all Protestants and Lutherans, but does not address it in its fullness, instead stating it is each layman’s job to continue the work of the apostles and emphasizes the how close a Lutheran ordination is in theology to Catholic theology. In truth, the theology is nearly identical save apostolic succession.
      The ultimate accumulation of work done to unite the two churches is The Declaration on the Way, published in 2015. The document brings together all past documents, and talks about all the places where Lutherans and Catholics now agree upon and disagree on, and most importantly lays some groundwork for moving forward. It talks about important issues in ministry, such as the ordination of women and the lack of distinction in the Lutheran Church between the priesthood and episcopacy, issues with the Eucharist, such as practices like adoration, and issues with the definition of a church, such as what it as a how a local church fits into the universal church. Nothing new is talked about, but what the Declaration does is compile the important issues of the Lutheran Catholic Dialogue into one place, essentially providing the framework for more talks, in the hope that a similar point of reference would lead to a similar view of God’s church.
      Issues of Lutheran-Catholic Dialogue still persist today, as matters of apostolic succession, church hierarchy, ordination, and liturgy still persist. Nevertheless, the future is abundant in hope for the reunification of the churches. In 2017, on October 31, Pope Francis and Bishop Munib Younan met together, the first time that leaders of the Catholic Church and the Lutheran Church had met since the Reformation, 499 years ago. Each leader urged its members to closer unity with the other’s church, stating: “We long for this wound in the body of Christ to be healed” (Francis and Younan). The idea the Lutheran Church and the Catholic Church may unite one day is possible and probable. 
      
