	In Tobais Smollett’s novel The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle two hot headed young men, Peregrine Pickle and Godfrey Gauntlet, clash heads over matters of honor, and strain against societal restrictions when attempting to express how they really feel. Ultimately, society may require humans to be polite, but people will always find ways of displaying their hidden and even animalistic emotions.
	Societal restrictions always attempt to hide the true emotions of people, and people often oblige to wrap their real feelings under subterfuge, at least initially. Mr. Gauntlet is upset with Mr. Pickle in the beginning, as he is unhappy with the relation Mr. Pickle has with his sister. However, he does not say this forthright – instead of saying how displeased he is, the first words he utters are “Mr. Pickle, you have carried on a correspondence with my sister for some time, and I should be glad to know the nature of it”. He cannot say he is unhappy with Mr. Pickle – that would be impolite. So, instead, he pretends not to know what is happening, as he asks to know the “nature” of the relationship. Mr. Pickle, though, will not tell Mr. Godfrey what is happening, and the situation begins to escalate. However, even when extremely irritated with each other, both men continue to follow the societal-approved address and continue to call each other “sir”. Eventually, the two end up dueling, and the two barely hold from morphing into animals. Mr. Pickle’s sword snaps, which thus concludes the duel. Smollet, in having Mr. Pickle’s sword snaps, draws a metaphor between both men’s swords and their masculinity, as Mr. Pickle’s masculinity is also broken in the duel. The duel held between the two is, in fact, an accepted societal convention – there is nothing culturally wrong with it. However, it does not matter – by the end of the duel, both men have begun embracing their more savage instincts, the kind society tries to prevent from coming out.
      Smollett, as the passage progresses, tries to show how the men become more animalistic as the story continues. The two men do not really exchange insults early on, but as insults to their pride are stacked, they do insult each other. But Smollett never writes out the conversation held with insults. In fact, early in the play, the conversation between the two men is written out entirely, but as the passage progresses, Smollett ends up paraphrasing the discourse held. This is done because speech is inherently a human characteristic, while most animals can communicate. Thus, by removing the speaking and leaving communication, Smollett pushes the characters towards savageness. When the characters are preparing to duel, they remove their clothes and “[lay] aside their coats and waistcoasts” – they remove even more about what makes them human. During the duel, they do not duel in controlled manners or refined strokes, but with “equal ferocity” and “fury and precipitation”. They are sweating and attempting hack off each other’s limbs, especially Mr. Pickle, who eventually loses the duel – Smollett may be making the claim that because Mr. Pickle gave in so completely to his wild instincts he lost the duel. While Mr. Gauntlet did indeed hold back a little bit and not attack Mr. Pickle’s weakness, at the end of the duel Smollett says he “stalked back to the inn”  - a very animalistic adjective. Smollett’s story and the literary techniques used in it demonstrate how humans will try to channel their emotions through the context of societal conventions, despite how it will try and dampen them.
