        	One of the most petrifying moments in human history was the Great War. For the first time, the entire globe was locked in combat. New and terrifying technology laid waste to peoples of all nations. The infamous Western Front was a graveyard for thousands of men. Some of those who survived recall their nightmarish memories in the form of poetry. Dulce et Decorum est and The Rear-Guard are two such works that capture the tortured thoughts of two veterans. While Owen describes the horrors of trench warfare and detests the perceived glory of battle, Sassoon writes about escaping from a hellish tunnel, and captures the dread mercilessness of war. Despite these differences, both Owen and Sassoon use vivid imagery and figures of speech to evoke emotion from their audience, and distinctive language to reinforce their attitudes.
        	Owen’s Dulce et Decorum est takes place in a British trench on the Western Front. During the poem, the speaker describes the inhumane conditions of the trench, and is haunted by the gruesome death of one of his fellow soldiers. These awful descriptions of war support Owen’s rejection to having glory in war. Nothing is glorious about the final, tortured moments of the soldier. Sassoon’s The Rear-Guard describes a soldier’s race to escape a dank and ominous tunnel of the Hindenburg Line.  At the conclusion of the poem, the speaker escapes the hellish tunnel only to re enter the terrors of war in the over world. Although both poets have a bitter attitude towards war, Owen specifically disagrees with the concept of honor in patriotic death, whereas Sassoon focuses more on the brutality of battle.
        	Both Owen and Sassoon use vivid imagery to evoke strong emotions in the reader. For example, in lines 20-24 says “His hanging face, like a devil’s sick of sin; If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs, obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud of vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues...” Here Owen uses both imagery and repetition to describe the dying moments of his fellow soldier. This graphic imagery evokes horror and disgust out of the audience by enhancing the gruesomeness of the poem. Sassoon uses personification on the first stanza: “He winked his prying torch with patching glare/From side to side, and sniffed unwholesome air.” The soldier’s flashlight provides inadequate lighting in the tunnel, which adds to the impending sense of danger. Sassoon also uses imagery: “Tins, boxes, bottles, shapes too vague to know…” This description reveals an uncanny and familiar scene to the speaker in the frightening tunnel. It shows that this horrible place was once a home to soldiers like him, enhancing the sense of threat felt by the audience.
        	Dulce et decorum est is a phrase that means there is honor in fighting for your country. Owen’s attitude is a rejection of this phrase. He uses graphically vivid language when depicting a soldier's death in hopes of creating emotions of terror within his audience. He also addresses the reader directly, referring to the audience as “My friend”. Sassoon’s attitude focuses more on the brutality of war. He also uses language to reinforce his attitude:”And fists of fingers clutching a blackening wound.” This alliteration gives the reader a more concrete image of the horrible scenes in the tunnel.
        	Both Owen and Sassoon reinforce their negative views of war through distinctive language, and evoke strong emotions of disgust and horror from the audience with vivid imagery and figures of speech. However, while Sassoon focuses on the intense horrors of battle, Owen writes to dissuade those from the “old Lie”, Dulce et decorum est Pro patria mori. Regardless of these different attitudes, both poets prove that war is cruel and unforgiving. The Great War was aptly named; not for its superb glory, but for being a quintessential definition of war and its terrible qualities.
        	





