      McCarthy’s The Road encapsulates the struggle of survival for a boy and his father in a post-nuclear war. THroughout the book, there is a lack of color, punctuation, and other commonalities in society, suggesting that the normalities of civilization have been lost with the war. Despite this, McCarthy ends the book with a vivid description of of trout. McCarthy uses imagery, symbolism, and diction to suggest that patterns of both humanity and the universe will persist as long as humanity and the universe exist.
      Unlike the rest of the novel, McCarthy uses vivid imagery to describe the trout: “You could see them standing in the amber current where the white edges of their fins wimpled softly in the flow.” This colorful passage suggests that significant time has passed since the time period that the rest of the novel took place in. The course of nature has resumed, and the trout have been restored to the state they were in before the war. This implies that the events of humanity have no permanent effect on the universe.
      McCarthy expands on this theme by using symbolism: “On their backs were vermiculate patterns that were the map of the world becoming.” The trout have patterns, “maps and mazes” of the world on their backs. The trout also live where “all things were older than man and they hummed with mystery.” Like the universe, the trout are ancient, seemingly isolated from mankind. The maps on their backs symbolize the patterns of the universe. Because the universe remains, the trout and patterns of the universe survive.
      The paragraph also uses vividly different diction than the rest of the book; McCarthy describes a peaceful scene of trout swimming in a stream, whereas the rest of the book is centered on brutality and gore. The nuclear fallout has decimated humanity, leaving pockets of survivors. Most of these people resort to horrific methods of living, including cannibalism and slavery. This peaceful contrast shows that because humanity has been revitalized, common practices such as diction have also returned.
      McCarthy’s use of diction, symbolism, and imagery shows that the human events have  minimal effect on the universe, and that common practices of mankind are only present when there is a society. Humanity is restored over time, and nature waits unaffected. 
      



