	The Scarlet Letter showcases harsh Puritan values, and punishment for sin. The protagonist, Hester Prynne, deceives her husband Chillingworth by not telling him who Pearl’s father is. Dimmesdale deceives the town by not revealing that he is the father. While Hester is trying to protect Dimmesdale in her deception, Dimmesdale only protects himself by deceiving the whole town, as Hester has already been publicly punished for her sin. The deception of these two characters contributes to the overarching Puritan theme by showing how sin as well as natural and civil law affect people.
	Dimmesdale is the town’s cleric; a holy and beloved man amongst his community. Ironically, Dimmesdale is an adulterer, and the father of Pearl. Because it would ruin his status and bring him shame, Dimmesdale keeps this a secret, hoping to preserve his image. Over time, Dimmesdale is viewed as a saint, and his sermons inspire the townspeople like they never have before. However, Dimmesdale is suffering from failing physical as well as emotional health. This is because of the increasing turmoil within him, simply because he prefers to deceive everyone rather than confess his sins. Eventually, Dimmesdale’s condition worsens so much that he dies, proving that clinging to sin is deadly. Dimmesdale’s deception contributes to the overall story because had he told everyone that he was Pearl’s father sooner, he would not have suffered as greatly. 
          Unlike Dimmesdale, Hester deceives Chillingworth to protect Dimmesdale, rather than herself. Hester is punished by being forced to wear a scarlet “A” on her clothing. Although she is punished by the town’s law, Hester’s deception maintains natural law by protecting Dimmesdale and his reputation. She has also accepted and released her sin instead of keeping it a secret. Over time, Hester is slowly accepted by the town. Hester’s deception contributes to the story because her deception protects Dimmesdale, allowing her to be free of her sin and preserve natural law. She shows that confessing to sin is beneficial, and that sometimes morals are more important than legal codes.
	Nathaniel’s The Scarlet Letter has harsh Puritan themes of sin and law. Dimmesdale and Hester use deception: Dimmesdale to protect himself, and Hester to protect Dimmesdale. While Hester benefits from her deception, Dimmesdale suffers. Their deception contributes to the story by revealing the effects of sin and law on individuals.


