
      From an early age, children are exposed to heteronormative gender roles through societal customs and expectations. Institutions such as religious centers and public schools reinforce these customs, often imposing certain expectations on children that force them to conform to particular cultural norms. For instance, schools often advocate for girls to join activities and sports that are traditionally feminine (e.g., theatrical productions and gymnastics), while encouraging boys to engage in pursuits that are stereotypically masculine (such as playing football). In addition to reinforcing classic gender roles, these institutions promote the formation of social hierarchies and foster the notion of “popularity.”
      It is often said that art imitates life. Accordingly, in much the same way children witness gender roles and restrictive social structures in their daily lives, they also encounter these cultural norms in films, television series, and literature. Jeff Kinney’s Diary of a Wimpy Kid, one such piece of young adult literature, encapsulates several Western gender and social norms in its chronicling of the trials and tribulations of life in middle school as experienced by the novel’s protagonist, Greg Heffley. Upon first glance, Diary of a Wimpy Kid may appear to be an odd choice for a detailed investigation of the prevalence of heteronormative gender roles in Western society. The book is riddled with cartoon imagery and is admittedly puerile in tone, but it is the novel’s very simplicity and Kinney’s attempt to accurately capture the adolescent landscape that permit an unencumbered inspection of the gender expectations that are deeply ingrained in the American psyche. In a work commonly viewed as trivial entertainment for young adolescents, Kinney highlights and unintentionally reinforces many societal norms pandemic in Western society, such as female sensitivity, male aggression, and social stratification.
      Throughout the novel, Greg ridicules his mother’s emotional effusiveness and creativity, bringing to light the gender stereotype that women have a greater emotional range than men. To fully understand Kinney’s depiction of women in Diary of a Wimpy Kid, it is important to note the prevailing wisdom regarding the emotional differences between males and females. As Parkins writes in “Gender and Emotional Expressiveness: An Analysis of Prosodic Features in Emotional Expression”:
There is a common assumption that has transpired over the years with regard to women being more emotionally expressive than men. Many studies have been conducted, examining emotional expressiveness in males and females and there is a fairly substantial body of research demonstrating that women are the more emotionally expressive gender (Kring & Gordon 1998). In addition to this there are certain emotions that have been stereotypically linked to each gender. Emotions of happiness, sadness and fear are believed to be more characteristic of women. (46)
      It is apparent that gender stereotypes portray women as being overly emotional creatures who are privy to a range of emotions such as “happiness, sadness and fear” (Parkins 46). This characterization of women is seen frequently in Greg’s derision towards his mother (Mom). On the first page of the novel, when discussing his mother’s purchase of a diary to help Greg transcribe his thoughts, Greg informs the reader, “If [Mom] thinks I’m going to write down my ‘feelings’ in here or whatever, she’s crazy… don’t expect me to be all ‘Dear Diary’ this and ‘Dear Diary’ that” (Kinney 1). A cartoon of a teenage bully punching a diary-carrying Greg while yelling, “Sissy!”, accompanies this text. Greg’s tone towards his mother is overtly critical, and he ridicules her expectation that Greg will transcribe his “feelings” (Kinney 1) into the diary, suggesting that such “feelings” are a feminine trait that he would be embarrassed to express. Furthermore, the aforementioned cartoon implies that those who express their feelings are “sissies,” an insult used to classify people who are cowardly and pointedly effeminate. By providing Greg’s cynical perspective on diaries and emotional exhibition, Kinney indicates that emotiveness is a characteristic strongly associated with females.
      Not only does Kinney characterize women as emotionally expressive, but he also depicts them as being more creative and artistic than men. At one point, Greg mentions Mom’s desire to start a family band, explaining that “Mom has this idea that we’re all going to learn to play instruments and then become one of those family bands like you see on TV” (Kinney 31). In fact, Mom encourages Rodrick to start his heavy metal band Löded Diper even though Dad is “against the idea” (Kinney 30). The author therefore portrays women as being more musically inclined than men. One might argue that Rodrick’s interest in heavy metal invalidates the assertion that men are less artistic, but Kinney’s illustration of Rodrick listening to music offers proof to the contrary. In this cartoon, while Rodrick sits still with a stern expression as he appreciates heavy metal, the reader can see Mom dancing energetically in the background (Kinney 31), demonstrating Kinney’s view that women are more creative when expressing their emotion.
      Kinney conveys that the female characters’ expressiveness contributes to their emotional sensitivity, presenting several scenarios in which women are shown to be exceedingly sensitive. For instance, when Mom finds Greg’s older brother Rodrick’s heavy metal magazine, which contains almost pornographic imagery, she reacts draconically, demanding that Rodrick reflect on the fact that he purchased such a degrading publication. Mom forces Rodrick to fill out a length questionnaire, including questions such as “did owning this magazine make you a better person?” (Kinney 42) and “how do you feel about having owned this type of magazine now?” (Kinney 42), to which Rodrick answers “no” (Kinney 42) and “I feel ashamed” (Kinney 42), respectively. Through Rodrick’s sarcastic responses, Kinney effectively lampoons Mom’s reaction to the magazine, suggesting that she takes such matters too seriously. Greg offers his own opinion of the publication, stating that it “honestly wasn’t anything to get worked up over” (Kinney 41). Thus, by displaying Mom’s overreaction to Rodrick’s magazine, which she views as degrading to women, Kinney reinforces the widely-held belief that women are more sensitive than men. On another occasion, Greg is tormenting a group of kindergarten students by chasing them with worms, but “some neighborhood lady” (Kinney 181) spots Greg and “[yells] at [him] from her porch” (Kinney 181), screaming, “The principal is going to hear about this!” (Kinney 181). Once again, Kinney portrays women as being emotionally sensitive since the lady, Mrs. Irvine, is alarmed by Greg’s seemingly harmless prank and reports him to the principal.
      The behavior of such women contrasts starkly with that of the adult male characters in the novel, particularly Greg’s father, Dad. These male characters adhere to the traditional masculine stereotype of extreme anger and aggression. As explained in “Gender and Emotional Expressiveness,” researchers have found that “sadness and fear are believed to be more characteristic of women, whereas men are believed to be more characteristically angry… [and] [t]hese stereotypes have provided a basis for society to deem what is and is not socially acceptable for males and females in displaying emotions” (Parkins 53). In essence, while women stereotypically display a wide range of emotion, men often constrain themselves to exhibit anger. This generalization of male behavior is prevalent throughout Diary of a Wimpy Kid, where men are portrayed as aggressive brutes with a clear, unified view of masculinity. Greg refers to the difference in his parents’ approach to discipline early in the book, explaining that although Dad “gets mad mad, he cools off real quick, and then it’s over” (Kinney 38), Mom has a “TOTALLY different style when it comes to punishment… the first thing she does is to take a few days to figure out what your punishment should be” (Kinney 39). Thus, Kinney demonstrates that while Dad momentarily lets his anger get the best of him, Mom is much more measured in her approach to discipline, reinforcing the gender stereotype that men are angrier and more aggressive than women. The author references this male propensity throughout the novel; in the winter, after Greg and Rowley create a man-sized ball of snow, Greg torments his younger brother Manny by kicking down Manny’s miniature snowman. Dad observes Greg from the window and angrily marches outside, and “in less than a minute, he [reduces Greg’s snowball] to nothing” (Kinney 162), pounding it to bits with a snow shovel. Rather than disciplining Greg verbally for having tormented Manny, Dad uses brute strength to punish his son, aggressively destroying Greg’s snowball. Dad’s actions contrast starkly to those of Mom, who often punishes Greg by banning him from playing video games. That Dad is shown to be more easily enraged while Mom is thoughtful and retrained in her approach to discipline once again supports the gender stereotype that men are more aggressive than women.
      Clearly, there is an abundance of gender stereotyping throughout the novel, in which women are portrayed as highly emotional and artistically leaning while men are displayed as brutish and aggressive. Such stereotyping is dangerous because it makes broad generalizations about males and females, while in reality men and women are more emotionally similar than is commonly believed. In a study conducted by Janet Shibley Hyde, it was shown that gender differences in “mathematics performance, verbal ability, and aggressive behavior… are small” (586), as well as differences in emotional expressivity and creativity. Some women are more aggressive than men, and some men may be more expressive than women; to make generalizations about each gender in the novel promotes stereotypes that are inaccurate.
      In addition to displaying men’s angry nature, the novel also promotes a stereotypical view of masculinity, machismo. According to Fragoso and Kashubeck, machismo can be described by the following three components: “callous sexuality toward women, a perception of violence as manly, and the view that danger is exciting” (87). Moreover, the phenomenon is a “cultural factor… substantially associated with crime, violence, and lawlessness independently of the structural control variables” (26) as it prompts men to prove their strength by engaging in violent behavior. Machismo is prevalent throughout the novel as Greg attempts to be a stereotypical macho male in order to gain the respect of his peers. For instance, when his school starts a wrestling unit during gym class, Greg has a newfound desire to “pack on some muscle” (Kinney 87) so that he can outshine his fellow classmates. He explains his proposed workout regimen to his parents, and while Dad “[is] pretty enthusiastic” (Kinney 88), Mom doesn’t “really say anything at first” (Kinney 88) and is skeptical of Greg’s wish to become buff, exhorting him to go easy on the weights and become toned instead. Thus, Kinney reinforces the concept of machismo by showing how Greg and his father are allured by the possibility of a buff physique. The macho stereotype appears later in the book when Greg accuses Rowley of stealing his idea for the school comic strip, and the two boys begin arguing. A crowd forms around Greg and Rowley, egging them on, to which Greg comments, “The kids at my school are ALWAYS itching to see a fight… [m]e and Rowley tried to walk away but those guys weren’t going to let us go until they saw us throw some punches” (Kinney 207). An illustration of a group of boys surrounding Greg and Rowley accompanies this text. The fact that the boys urge Greg and Rowley to use violence to resolve their dispute reflects a core tenet of machismo, whereby men are expected to protect themselves by establishing physical dominance. Kinney does not mention or illustrate any females in the scene, indicating that this sort of temperament is unique to males. The danger of glorifying the idea of machismo through the novel’s male characters is that it generalizes such behavior to all men and suggests that all males desire to embody the muscular, aggressive archetype that is widespread in Western culture. This generalization is untrue since all men are not the same, and studies have shown that continuous exposure to the concept of machismo can have “deleterious mental and physical health consequences” (Fragoso and Kashubeck 87) such as “lower self-esteem and higher anxiety, … higher levels of anger and substance use, … higher levels of depression, … and higher levels of psychological distress” (Fragoso and Kashubeck 87). Thus, Kinney’s choice to have the male characters in the novel glorify machismo reinforces the notion that all men pursue the macho, aggressive stereotype.
      The prevalence of sex-based stereotyping in Diary of a Wimpy Kid leads to the formation of sex segregation, whereby the male and female characters are encouraged to pursue different activities. This segregation is pandemic in Western society, and as Pasterski et al. write:
Childhood sex segregation is a robust phenomenon and the developmental trajectory of same-sex affiliation has been well documented… The magnitude of the preference for same- versus other-sex affiliation is quite large, increases at least into middle childhood, and appears to be resistant to change… it has been demonstrated that boys and girls differ in toy choices, activity levels, and rough-and-tumble play. Compared to boys, girls play more with dolls and doll furnishings, are less active, and are less interested in rough, outdoor play. By contrast, compared to girls, boys play more with construction and transportation toys, are more active and are more interested in rough, outdoor play.
      During childhood, sex segregation often takes place in leisure activities such as play time and extracurricular pursuits. As such, in the novel, Greg’s school environment separates boys and girls into activities that fit their gender stereotypes during gym class. Greg notes that “Mr. Underwood, [their] Phys Ed teacher, announced that the boys will be doing a wrestling unit” (Kinney 76) and later finds out that the girls are “doing their gymnastics unit… in the back of the gym” (Kinney 81). That Greg’s school would segregate boys into wrestling, an aggressive sport, and girls into gymnastics, which is traditionally feminine, is indicative of the sex segregation that is widespread in American schools. However, this segregation is not strictly limited to schools and is also rampant in Greg’s home life. For example, when Mom urges Greg to audition for the school musical, Greg “[begs] her not to make [him] sign up” (Kinney 95), which only seems to make Mom all the more adamant. Dad hears about this situation and takes “[Greg’s] side… [arguing] for a few minutes” (Kinney 96) with Mom. Mom eventually wins the argument and forces Greg to join the musical, and Greg’s fears of social embarrassment persist. Horrified that the play director has given him a singing part, Greg is nevertheless relieved that “Rodrick won’t be in the audience to see [him] humiliate [himself]” (Kinney 105). That Greg is embarrassed to sing and act in the musical indicates the power of subconscious sex segregation to influence the behavior of adolescents. Greg views musicals and singing as a feminine activity and therefore feels out of place acting in the play, sensing that he does not belong there. This feeling of embarrassment is compounded by the presence of Rodrick, whom Greg believes will mock him for participating in a stereotypically feminine activity. The concept of sex segregation is instilled in people from a young age, and Greg first encounters this idea when he asks his parents for a Barbie Dream House for Christmas. Mom fully supports Greg’s request, arguing that it is “healthy for [Greg] to ‘experiment’ with whatever kind of toys [he wants] to play with” (Kinney 117), while Dad is alarmed by Greg’s choice and demands that Greg “pick some toys that [are] more ‘appropriate’ for boys” (Kinney 117). As mentioned previously, girls are more prone to “play… with dolls and doll furnishings” (Pasterski et. al) than are boys, which is why Dad instructs Greg to pick more “appropriate” (Kinney 117) toys to play with. This form of cultural sex segregation is harmful because it shapes the interests of males and females to conform to a particular gender norm early in childhood, with lasting repercussions in adulthood. Thus, Kinney’s depiction of sex segregation in the novel, be it through separated gym classes or arguments about the appropriateness of toys, ultimately reinforces cultural norms regarding activities and interests that are “proper” for boys and girls.
      Beyond the gender stereotyping and sex segregation that is seen throughout the book, the author also highlights the social hierarchy to which most school-going adolescents are privy. When discussing the social ladder early in the novel, Greg mentions that he is “somewhere around 52nd or 53rd most popular this year” (Kinney 7). Greg, like many of his peers, is obsessed with being popular, taking painful measures to increase his social standing. For instance, he tries his best to be featured on the Class Favorites page of the school yearbook, explaining that “[i]f you can get yourself voted onto the Class Favorites page, you’re practically an immortal” (Kinney 198). Greg views the Class Favorites page as a means of boosting his social status within his middle school. His fear of losing popularity is most apparent when he mentions his skill at sewing; after taking a Home Economics course, Greg discovers that he enjoys embroidery, a stereotypically feminine activity. As a result, he is teased by his classmates and is called “pursie” (Kinney 145), learning that “being good at sewing does not exactly buy you popularity points at school” (Kinney 145). Pursuing an activity that he enjoys attracts the derision of his peers, so Greg stops sewing in an attempt to save his popularity. Unfortunately, falling victim to peer pressure in order to boost one’s standing on the social hierarchy can have negative consequences, as explained by Santor et al.:
Although a key aspect of normal adolescent development, there may be costs associated with becoming a member of a group of people. Some have considered peer pressure the “price of group membership” (Clasen and Brown, 1985), which research has linked to a variety of potential problems, including substance abuse (Bauman and Ennett, 1996; Robin and Johnson, 1996; Hawkins, 1982), risk-taking behavior and delinquency (Keena, Loeber, Zhang, and Stouthamer, 1995), as well as dating attitudes and sexual behavior (Newcomer, Udry, and Cameron, 1983). (164)
Being overly preoccupied with one’s social status, as Greg is, can lead to a plethora of issues in adulthood, such as substance abuse and delinquent behavior. Thus, through the character of Greg, Kinney conveys the extent to which social standing and stratification are a part of adolescent life.
	Such keen scrutiny of Kinney’s writing and the way in which he displays gender stereotyping, sex segregation, and social stratification begs the question: does the author’s inclusion of these societal misfortunes constitute intentional commentary, or is Kinney unintentionally perpetuating deleterious cultural norms? The answer lies in a gray area; while Kinney does not include these norms out of malice, they may have unintended consequences. The author, in his attempt to accurately represent adolescent life and to lend verisimilitude to his novel, incorporates several gender stereotypes and social structures. Since Kinney’s audience is comprised primarily of young, impressionable readers, his inclusion of these cultural norms subconsciously reinforces certain stereotypes and repressive social structures in the readers’ minds. Kimmel investigated the effect of different books on children’s values, discovering that with regard to minority stereotyping, “Children’s attitudes toward [minorities] were definitely shaped by the stories they heard. Positive initial attitudes were reinforced by the positive stories” (213). In much the same way children are influenced by positive stereotypes regarding minority groups, they can also be affected by negative stereotypes regarding gender and social status. Thus, Kinney’s presentation of these stereotypes in the novel, unintentional or not, reinforces cultural norms that are already widespread throughout the Western world.
	In Diary of a Wimpy Kid, Jeff Kinney presents cultural patterns such as female sensitivity, male aggression, and social stratification, which are pervasive in American life. These norms, which children already encounter in their daily lives at school or in their homes, are reinforced through the behavior of characters such as Greg, Mom, and Dad. Ultimately, the novel presents a myopic view of identity that groups individuals based on stereotypes, promotes an unhealthy obsession with the notion of popularity, and pressures people to conform to heteronormative gender roles. While the book may serve as harmless entertainment for some, the cultural norms that it perpetuates and strengthens are undeniably detrimental.





