	In the modern day, education is not only a right, but a necessity. The job market has evolved over the past few decades to favor highly-skilled, knowledge-based work, and the amount of low-skilled employment is quickly dwindling. Those occupations that required only a high school diploma in the twentieth century now demand a college degree or more, incentivizing students to invest heavily in their own education. Higher education has long been viewed as a “ticket” of sorts to the middle class, further strengthening its association with financial prosperity. As with all commodities, the education sector has been transformed into a thriving enterprise, with universities strategically investing in sprawling, beautified campuses and broadening their academic offerings to attract a larger applicant pool. These institutional upgrades have in turn engendered stratospheric tuition costs, leaving the current generation of college students mired in debt and lacking in relevant skills. The mere demand for a college education has raised its price point from a pure economic view, but the fact remains that many have become fiscally disadvantaged as a result of college. Calls to make higher education free for everyone are misguided due to the sheer number of students seeking to attend university, but it is undeniable that widespread reform is necessary to decelerate the rising costs of college. Universities in the United States should establish tuition structures that take into account future earnings as well as individual socioeconomic circumstances so as to produce a cohort of highly-skilled workers who are unencumbered by financial debt.
	 The issue of college tuition is one that is repeated ad nauseam in the news media, and its ramifications are most clearly visible in the toll it incurs on the national student debt. Across the country, Americans “struggle with a collective $1.4 trillion in student loan debt” (Martin), a figure that has increased exponentially in the past two decades. As reported by the U.S. Department of Education, among the college students who began receiving student loans in 2004, nearly “40 percent… may default on their student loans by 2023” (Scott-Clayton). This percentage is much higher than college students in 1996, and furthermore, researchers found that “for-profit borrowers default at twice the rate of public two-year borrowers” (Scott-Clayton). In addition to signaling the inability of college graduates to pay back their loans, these statistics indicate that for-profit institutions place their students in a worse financial situation than do public, two-year colleges. More concerning is the disparity in default rates with respect to race as African Americans with B.A. degrees “default at five times the rate of white BA graduates (21 versus 4 percent)” (Scott-Clayton). The reason for this discrepancy is the fact that black students tend to pursue graduate education as well as attend for-profit institutions, both of which add significantly to student debt. Although default rates for students attending colleges outside the for-profit sphere increased less drastically from 1996 to 2004, they nevertheless rose by “3 students out of every 100” (Scott-Clayton), which is substantial for such a short period of time. The crux of the issue is that incomes have failed to keep pace with the rising costs of higher education, and as a result, parents are siphoning larger percentages of their incomes to fund their children’s college expenses. As Clark writes in Time, low-income households would have had to use “40% of… [their] annual income” to pay for a public university in 2011, as compared to “29% of their income” (Clark) in 2007. Middle and upper-class families were less affected in this regard but still experienced an increase in the share of their salaries going towards college expenditures. These data suggest that as long as universities continue to hike tuition and fees, households and individuals will be divested of larger portions of their incomes. The unfortunate reality is that lower class people are impacted the most by the inordinate cost of higher education as they are more likely to default on student loans. These individuals are also less likely to have learned about proper money management, further compounding the effects of high tuition. Many of these poorer students view higher education as a means to escape poverty, hence their reliance on for-profit institutions to attain some sort of college degree. Regardless, default rates have risen dramatically over the last few decades, demonstrating that there is a need for institutional change to alleviate the student debt crisis by modifying the tuition structures of both public and private universities.
	Some argue that instituting free tuition among all public colleges is the panacea for the national student debt. Such discourse has become prominent in the American political landscape, and Senator Bernie Sanders proposed the College for All Act in 2017, which “aims to make colleges and universities tuition-free for families that earn $125,000 per year or less” (Carter). While these proposals aim to expand access to higher education by making it affordable for most people, it is nearly impossible for state governments to satisfy the increasing demand for higher education without withdrawing funds from other public programs. Governor Cuomo implemented Sanders’s proposal through the Excelsior Scholarship in New York State, which renders the state’s public universities tuition-free (Chen). Although the state “anticipated that 23,000 people would benefit, … instead, 75,000 applied” (Chen), far more than New York could fiscally handle.
      Herein lies the issue with proposals for tuition-free colleges: there are too many students for state or national governments to support. Consequently, programs such as the Excelsior Scholarship must impose several qualifications on eligibility, excluding individuals who have not been continually enrolled in school (Chen). This prevents many lower-income students, who are more likely to have experienced gaps in their education, from pursuing a college degree, thereby hindering the efforts of free tuition programs to make higher education equitable. Furthermore, universities have non-tuition costs, such as living expenses, that are often far greater than the tuition costs themselves, so households comprising the “bottom half of the income distribution [pay] nearly $18 billion in annual out-of-pocket college costs” (Chingos). It is easy to reminisce about life in the 1800s, when university tuition at public institutions was typically free, but one must remember that during those times, higher education was more a privilege than a right. Only a subset of the wealthy elite was fortunate enough to attend college, and it is precisely because of rising enrollment numbers that schools such as UC Berkeley began charging nominal “educational [fees]” (Vega) in the 1970s. Much like free college tuition in the nineteenth century, proposals such as that of Senator Sanders would favor the affluent since the “top half of the income distribution would receive 24 percent more in dollar value from eliminating tuition” (Chingos) than the lower half, contradicting Sanders’s intent to help the lower class attain equal footing with their upper-class counterparts. A program that truly made college free would have to provide students with free housing or otherwise reimburse them for living expenses to create affordable options for individuals from low-income backgrounds. With state and federal budgets already strained, it would be impractical to augment an expensive free tuition plan with extra funding to support student housing. If one subscribes to Sanders’s proposal of imposing additional taxes on Wall Street investments (Carter), which has been met with a great deal of resistance, the nation would have to institute further taxation or cut revenue from other entitlement programs, both of which would not bode well with the American public.
      Even if it were possible for the government to fully fund student tuition, would the end result be desirable? Proponents of free tuition point to countries such as Germany as paradigms of social progressiveness and argue that the United States should seek to emulate their models of higher education. Germany recently removed tuition costs from all public universities for both domestic students and foreigners, and although enrollment “rose by 22% as tuition disappeared” (Marcus, “Germany Proves Tuition-Free College”), the change had many unintended consequences. For example, students at Freie Universität, a public college in Germany, reported that after the tuition change, undergraduates were forced to attend lectures with “‘hundreds and hundreds of students’” (Gratz qtd. in Marcus, “Germany Proves Tuition-Free College”) and that PhD candidates, who teach many of the courses, do not “‘… have enough money for research… [or] for teaching, either’” (Gratz qtd. in Marcus, “Germany Proves Tuition-Free College”). Public universities in the U.S. are well-regarded for their research output, with many institutions attracting the best scientists, professors, and PhD students because of the name recognition of labs on campus. Were the American government to make colleges tuition-free, public universities would be compelled to cut back on academic research that contributes meaningfully to the body of human knowledge but fails to produce short-term revenue. As in Germany, students would be crammed in lecture halls with PhD candidates as instructors, further diminishing the quality of the higher education system. Another potential repercussion of tuition-free college is that “top professors would leave public schools for better pay at private ones” (Smith), further differentiating the caliber of the latter, which primarily serve the upper class, from that of the former. Without the groundbreaking research and top-tier instruction that render U.S. public universities among the best in the world, the value of a free education would be minimal.
      The other issue with reforming American higher education is cultural in nature. As high school diplomas become commonplace, a bachelor’s degree is typically a minimum requirement for most entry-level jobs. Considering the fact that in 2010, only “27 percent of college grads had a job that was closely related to their major” (Plumer), it appears that employers’ insistence on a college degree mainly serves to cull the applicant pool. The precise relationship between university coursework and job skills remains nebulous, and there are better ways for people to receive real-world training. Coding boot camps, for instance, have become popular in recent years as they prepare students for software engineering jobs and are a fraction of the cost of college. Corporations should ideally become more open to the idea of hiring boot camp and trade school graduates who possess valuable skills but lack university degrees. In some product teams at Google, “14 percent of the team… [have] never gone to college” (Bock qtd. in Bryant), proving that higher education is not necessarily for everyone. This is not to say that individuals should eschew college altogether; universities can still offer opportunities for intense scholarship and social networking to those who wish to pursue a degree and, more importantly, can afford one.
      Even disregarding the possibility of trade schools and boot camps assuming some of the roles of higher education, there are more pragmatic methods by which America can make college accessible and affordable, such as by utilizing technology to deliver curricula and instituting income-contingent loan repayment schemes. England’s university system offers an illuminating example of the power of reformed student loan schemes when compared to an absolute elimination of tuition. The country’s public universities were tuition-free for much of the twentieth century but began charging tuition in 1998, moving from a “free higher education system to a high-fee, high-aid system” (Wyness et. al qtd. in Smith). The effect of this transition was that students from low-income backgrounds started enrolling in public universities at a rate faster than any other economic group (Smith), and these institutions gained the funding to initiate traditional academic endeavors such as scientific research. In other words, English public universities were now able to support higher quality student instruction and retain pedigreed faculty. The nation’s government accomplished this financial stabilization firstly by creating “means-tested grants” (Smith) that offer financial aid to individuals of lower socioeconomic status. There are stark similarities between England’s model of financial aid and that of several private universities in the United States, so implementing this tuition system in American public colleges would be far from a radical change. Moreover, these grants ensure that funding is being directed to students who need it the most, rather than benefiting individuals who are able to afford college without assistance.
      The second measure that England took to stimulate lower class students to pursue higher education was to institute income-contingent loan repayments. In this scheme, students only pay off loans when they receive income above a certain threshold value, and loans will be automatically forgiven after a predetermined duration of time. As Smith writes in Bloomberg, these loans differ from traditional student loans in that “students… only have to pay back if they [succeed] in their careers.” The beauty of income-contingent loans is that they incentivize universities to teach students skills that are valuable in the job market by making these institutions dependent on the income of their alumni. Of course, some may argue that universities may tend to promote departments such as engineering, business, and the sciences at the expense of the humanities since degrees in these fields have higher returns on investment, but for students who wish to improve their socioeconomic standing, the English model proves viable.
      Another nation that has embraced the concept of income-contingent loan repayments is that of Australia. There, graduates “don’t have to start making payments for their college educations until they reach a salary… of $39,152” (Marcus, “Visiting a Country”), and even then, they only have to pay “4 percent of their total earnings” (Marcus, “Visiting a Country”). As a result, Australian students, unlike their American counterparts, rarely default on their loans and can attend university with the knowledge that they will never be struggling to make ends meet (that is, student loans would never cause such a situation). While certainly superior to traditional student loans, Australia’s repayment scheme contains several loopholes, one of which is the fact that “graduates working outside Australia do not have to repay” (Norton) their loans; if the U.S. were to enact a similar system, it would ideally establish a clause requiring working graduates to pay back loans even while abroad. Another issue with the Australian model is that retired people can attend university for free (Norton), which consumes educational resources that could be put to better use schooling the next generation of workers. Again, the United States could improve upon Australia’s system by preventing retirees from taking advantage of income-contingent loans. All in all, this system helps students learn valuable skills for the modern workforce and protects people from defaulting on loans and experiencing the type of financial distress that is characteristic of American college graduates.
      In addition to instituting income-contingent loans, public universities in the U.S. should harness cutting-edge technological tools in order to reduce institutional costs and accommodate ever increasing student bodies without sacrificing the quality of instruction. Govindarajan and Desai posit that within the realm of higher education, there is “a significant opportunity to help reduce the lecture portion of expenses” by employing the best lecturers to record instructional videos for students and transitioning existing faculty to mentorship and tutoring roles. By doing so, universities can transform lectures into a fixed cost and offer students a more intimate education in the form of group tutoring and discussions. Of particular note among the hundreds of institutions that have released massive open online courses (MOOCs) is Georgia Tech, which recently launched a fully accredited online master’s degree in computer science for a relatively low price of $6,600 (Govindarajan and Desai). For many college graduates unable to find well-paid employment with their bachelor’s degree, Georgia Tech’s program provides top-tier education under a recognized institution that could lead to a lucrative job in engineering. Public universities should adopt a national standard for online coursework earned for credit hours so that students who cannot afford campus housing can take classes remotely. Georgia Tech’s online master’s degree is a step in the right direction, and more universities should follow its lead and develop low-cost bachelor’s degree programs. The Internet democratized access to knowledge in the twenty-first century, and educational institutions should responsibly utilize its power to provide affordable college degrees.
      Public universities in the U.S. should implementing income-contingent loan repayment models, as well as offer need-based financial aid and launch courses and even degrees on the Internet, to make higher education affordable and accessible to all. Proposals for tuition-free colleges are not sustainable because modern universities are unable to properly educate steadily increasing student populations due to sheer enrollment numbers. Additionally, these institutions will find it more difficult to carry out academic research because of diminished revenue streams, which partly undermines the mission of research universities. For these reasons, America ought to retain its current tuition figures and adapt the loan schemes of England and Australia to alleviate the student debt crisis and provide a better future to its posterity.







Works Cited
Bryant, Adam. “In Head-Hunting, Big Data May Not Be Such a Big Deal.” The New York Times, The New York Times Company, 19 June 2013, www.nytimes.com/2013/06/20/business/in-head-hunting-big-data-may-not-be-such-a-big-deal.html?pagewanted=2.
Carter, Shawn M. “Bernie Sanders: One Thing Needs to Change in Order to Make America 'Great'.” CNBC, CNBC, 10 Oct. 2017, www.cnbc.com/2017/10/10/bernie-sanders-we-need-to-make-college-free-to-make-america-great.html.
Chen, David W. “75,000 Apply for State College Scholarships, but Many Won't Qualify.” The New York Times, The New York Times Company, 25 Aug. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/08/25/nyregion/excelsior-college-scholarship-program-new-york.html.
Chingos, Matthew M. “Who Would Benefit Most from Free College?” Brookings, Brookings, 21 Apr. 2016, www.brookings.edu/research/who-would-benefit-most-from-free-college/.
Clark, Kim. “Paying for College: New Federal Report Shows College Costs Taking Up a Larger Share of Family Income | Money.” Time, Time Inc., 27 Mar. 2015, time.com/money/3761431/college-costs-percent-income/.
Govindarajan, Vijay, and Jatin Desai. “Should Higher Education Be Free?” Harvard Business Review, Harvard Business Publishing, 5 Sept. 2013, hbr.org/2013/09/higher-education-for-free.
Marcus, Jon. “Germany Proves Tuition-Free College Is Not a Silver Bullet for America's Education Woes.” Quartz, Quartz, 18 Oct. 2016, qz.com/812200/is-free-college-possible-germany-shows-there-are-downsides-to-tuition-free-college/.
Marcus, Jon. “Visiting a Country Where It's Almost Impossible to Default on College Debt.” The Hechinger Report, The Hechinger Report, 16 Mar. 2016, hechingerreport.org/australia-college-payment-model-exposes-shortcomings-of-new-american-version/.
Martin, Emmie. “Here's How Much More Expensive It Is for You to Go to College than It Was for Your Parents.” CNBC, CNBC, 29 Nov. 2017, www.cnbc.com/2017/11/29/how-much-college-tuition-has-increased-from-1988-to-2018.html.
Norton, Andrew. “Australian College Plan Has Helped Students, at a Cost.” The New York Times, The New York Times Company, 11 July 2013, www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2013/07/09/study-now-pay-later/australian-college-plan-has-helped-students-at-a-cost.
Plumer, Brad. “Only 27 Percent of College Grads Have a Job Related to Their Major.” The Washington Post, WP Company, 20 May 2013, www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2013/05/20/only-27-percent-of-college-grads-have-a-job-related-to-their-major/?utm_term=.e589395628ef.
Scott-Clayton, Judith. “The Looming Student Loan Default Crisis Is Worse than We Thought.” Brookings, The Brookings Institution, 11 Jan. 2018, www.brookings.edu/research/the-looming-student-loan-default-crisis-is-worse-than-we-thought/.
Smith, Noah. “Free College Would Help the Rich More Than the Poor.” Bloomberg.com, Bloomberg, 30 Oct. 2017, www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-10-30/free-college-would-help-the-rich-more-than-the-poor.
Vega, Lilia. “The History of UC Tuition since 1868.” The Daily Californian, The Daily Californian, 22 Dec. 2014, www.dailycal.org/2014/12/22/history-uc-tuition-since-1868/.





