	The rise of the Internet in the modern age has engendered a vast increase in human communication and has permanently changed the ways in which people convey and receive information.  For one, video has become prominent as an online medium as it enables people to communicate visually while at the same time maintaining traditional writerly flow through speech. One such video, Shai Reshef’s TED Talk on the cost of higher education, is a prime example of a piece that employs the full range of audiovisual capacities to convey its point about the possibility of a low-cost college degree. In addition to addressing the physical attendees, the speaker is able to reach a much broader audience by posting a recording of the talk on YouTube. Reshef effectively appeals to ethos, pathos, and logos in order to argue that affordable online universities are not only feasible, but also necessary in the present day.
	The speaker begins his talk with an appeal to pathos, perhaps the most effective of the three rhetorical techniques utilized in this piece. In general, an appeal to pathos is intended to evoke an emotional reaction from the audience, often through an “impassioned plea or a convincing story” (“Examples of Ethos, Logos, and Pathos”). In his TED Talk, Reshef primarily uses the latter, presenting the viewer with three compelling stories that accentuate the need for a low-cost higher education model. First, the speaker introduces Patrick, a man from Nigeria who, despite having “graduated high school with nearly-perfect grades” (Reshef), is unable to pursue a college education due to conditions of civil war in his country. Reshef proceeds to speak about Debbie, another aspiring university student who “doesn’t have the savings for higher education”, and he finally describes Wael, a man from Syria who is “firsthand experiencing the misery, fear, and failure imposed on his country” and wishes to attain a college education in order to better survive in a “world turned upside down.” Throughout these three descriptions, Reshef utilizes strong emotional appeals that compel the audience to sympathize with the subjects and their adverse conditions. That the speaker presents these stories in rapid succession adds to the urgency of the situation, forcing the viewers to ponder the implications of the inaccessibility of higher education. Reshef punctuates these three descriptions with intimate portrait photographs of the subjects under discussion, bolstering his appeal to pathos by giving the subjects faces and humanizing them. Furthermore, he concludes the stories with a remark that the higher education system is “failing millions of potential students… millions that want to study but cannot access” (Reshef), displaying a photograph of a large protesting crowd to illustrate the demand for an affordable college degree. Thus, the speaker’s use of pathos is to engage the viewer and demonstrate the urgent need for a low-cost alternative to traditional higher education.
	 Reshef offers a solution to this issue in the form of his own non-profit organization, University of the People. Citing UNESCO’s statement that “in 2025, one hundred million students will be deprived from higher education simply because there will not be enough seats to accommodate them” (Reshef), Reshef effectively appeals to logos and provides a motive regarding why he founded University of the People. Appeals to logos can be broadly defined as lines of reasoning that persuade the audience with facts, statistics, examples, and other forms of (ideally well-researched) information.  Reshef proceeds to outline the central aim of University of the People, which is to provide a low-cost college education delivered over the Internet. He employs more appeals to logos in order to describe the benefits of his platform over traditional universities, namely that the latter have normal brick and mortar expenses as well as textbook fees, both of which hike tuition. Two visuals accompany this portion of the talk, showing a side-by-side comparison of traditional universities and University of the People with regard to maintenance and textbook expenses. Reshef therefore appeals to logos not only to reinforce the fact that there exists a widespread need for low-cost higher education, but also to convey the feasibility of his own non-profit’s model.
	Reshef’s ideas are sound in theory, but the question remains as to whether his paradigm of online education is indeed effective. He addresses this concern by noting the initial success of University of the People in attracting “over three thousand [professors and academic advisors] … from top universities such as NYU, Yale, Berkeley, and Oxford” (Reshef) to teach web-based curricula. The mention of these professors from highly-respected universities adds credibility to Reshef’s organization and makes him appear qualified to speak about the issue of higher education. In addition, perceptions of the effectiveness massive open online courses (MOOCs) have become increasingly favorable in recent years, with Professor David Malan of Harvard stating that “‘we’re nearing the point where it’s a superior educational experience… to engage with [students] online’” (Pope), lending more credit to Reshef’s mission. Towards the end of the talk, he reveals that University of the People has become fully accredited by the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (Vanunu). Reshef thereby appeals to ethos by indicating the credibility of his online university as a recognized institution. As Laura Pappano writes in The New York Times, hundreds of people have benefited from attending University of the People while working full-time, such as a student named Ali Partik Eid who asserts that “adding an associate degree in business administration to his résumé had gotten him three job interviews.” Student success stories inject further credibility into the organization’s mission and further support Reshef’s argument in favor of low-cost online universities.
	In his TED Talk regarding the inaccessibility of higher education, Reshef appeals to pathos to highlight the importance of this issue, logos to evidence the feasibility of his organization’s model, and ethos to solidify the efficacy of University of the People. Throughout the talk, he employs visuals to convey the differences between his organization and traditional universities. These visuals also serve to humanize the issue of higher education by displaying photographs of real students in dire need of a college degree. Thus, Reshef effectively utilizes these rhetorical techniques to argue that his model of online education is a solution to the problems currently faced by universities.





