	The concept of university is becoming increasingly ingrained in the American psyche as a necessity for survival in the modern economy. Modern notions of university in the U.S. may appear static, with many perceiving universities as sprawling campuses that are bastions of intense learning, critical thinking, and scholarly pursuit. However, it is important to recognize that the definition of the university is ever-changing and has different connotations in various contexts. Historical uses of the term “university” differ greatly from present-day definitions, and this shift in meaning has been reflected by a change in the constitution and goals of these institutions. While universities were initially formed to serve affluent, white men, in the modern day, they can be defined as organizations that educate a diverse set of students in a variety of fields and produce research output to advance the body of human knowledge. 
	For a thorough analysis of the term “university,” it is instructive to examine the word’s origins and formal historical definitions. The word derives from the Latin “universitas,” which is defined as “a number of persons associated into one body, a society, company, community, guild, [or] corporation” (Lewis and Short). Roman perceptions of the university were decidedly broad, and the Latin usage of the term universitas was utilized to classify a large swath of organizational bodies. In the Middle Ages, European universities began to center around academics, and accordingly, “university” came to be defined as “associations of students and teachers with collective legal rights usually guaranteed by charters issued by princes, prelates, or the towns where they were located” (Colish 267). In other words, medieval universities were considered legal entities comprised of teachers and students protected by higher authorities. Modern formal definitions of the word “university” vary among states and nations. For instance, the state of Massachusetts only recognizes institutions as universities if they grant two or more doctoral degrees, in order to distinguish universities from colleges that focus on undergraduate education (“DEGREE-GRANTING REGULATIONS FOR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION”). Many colleges are contained within universities, such as the undergraduate division of Harvard University, Harvard College. Generally, Merriam-Webster defines the university as an “institution of higher learning providing facilities for teaching and research and authorized to grant academic degrees” (“University”), indicating the heightened role that these institutions play as epicenters of academic research.
	While these formal definitions, both historical and modern, succinctly encapsulate the meaning of the term “university” in various contexts, they often fail to capture the definitional nuances that arise naturally from practical use of the word (i.e., operational definitions). For example, one salient trait of medieval universities is that they stemmed from monastic schools, a theme that persisted throughout the formation of the earliest American colleges in the 1600s, which were “more like theological schools” (Sandock) intended to educate future clergymen. Additionally, most universities in the Middle Ages were characterized by “exemption from the civil law” (Colish 267), meaning that members of these institutions were immune from the death penalty and other legal measures applicable to common folk. Implicit in this legal discrimination was a contemporary understanding of the university as an elevated institution whose constituents were exempt from the afflictions faced by laymen and possessed special privileges similar to those of the clergy.
	Another significant component of the operational definition of the university is its support of academic freedom. In the mid-1100s, the University of Bologna published the Authentica Habita, which permitted scholars to freely travel through Italy and neighboring areas in their academic pursuits (Clark and Berengo). The notion of academic freedom continues to be relevant in the modern day, wherein universities are at liberty to teach whatever they desire, and faculty and students can engage controversial topics without fearing dismissal. Academic freedom engenders innovation and the study of new fields, which leads many to view and define the university as a “liberal bastion” (Mooney). Whether or not this view is generally accurate, most universities are certainly breeding grounds for novel ideas and liberal thought. Also key to the operational definition of the university is its research output; in the modern era, these institutions have been typified by their research contributions to a variety of areas including the humanities, sciences, and engineering.
	The aforementioned descriptions of the university offer apt definitions in the rigorous sense, but it is also informative to define the university using examples. At a broad level, the prevailing societal understanding of the university is an institution that grants degrees at both the undergraduate and doctoral levels, publishes novel research in a breadth of fields, contains a sizable faculty with which students interact, and offers coursework both online and on a physical campus. Anecdotally, UC Berkeley, the university I attend, fits all of these criteria, and most of my peers at school would concur with the above description. There are several classifications of universities, including research institutions (such as Berkeley, Stanford, Harvard, and others), pontifical universities (ecclesiastical in nature), and online universities (e.g., Georgia Tech’s Master’s in Computer Science program, Coursera, Udacity).
	The term “university” has been defined in a variety of ways throughout history, with different time periods contributing nuances in denotation. In the modern age, the university can be broadly described as a degree-granting institution that engages in research activity and provides education in an assortment of disciplines, be it virtually or on a physical campus. The perception of universities as “elevated” centers of learning has persisted somewhat in the present day. Furthermore, the institutional focus on research and scientific discovery has vastly increased, giving rise to modified definitions of the word “university.”






